URL: https://27east.com/food-drinks/wolffer-kitchen-sag-harbors-lease-is-up-for-sale-while-the-restaurant-remains-open-1677330
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Title: Wolffer Kitchen Sag Harbor's Lease Is Up For Sale While The Restaurant Remains Open (27east, Feb 2020). Asking lease-assignment (key money) price; NOT an executed transaction.

Copy article link

 Save

Wölffer Kitchen is poised to close its doors in Sag Harbor — but not quite yet. The lease is up for sale, though Wölffer Estate currently plans to keep operating the restaurant until a buyer can be found.

Wölffer Kitchen Sag Harbor opened in 2015 at 29 Main Street, and two years later a sister restaurant opened in Amagansett. The latter restaurant is unaffected by the decision to put the Sag Harbor lease on the market.

The restaurants expanded the footprint of Wölffer Estate, which is best known for its Sagaponack vineyard and horse stables.

“We have had a fantastic journey over the last five years with the Sag Harbor location and our goal has always been to highlight local food, paired with the most food-friendly, quality wines,” Wölffer Estate General Manager Max Rohn emailed last week. “The location is great, but due to the seasonality and the high costs of food and service, we want to look at all our options. While we have the lease up for sale, this does not mean we’ll be closing doors before any sale. We are exploring our business options as we don’t want to compromise what we want the restaurants to be. So in the meantime status quo at the Wölffer Kitchen Sag Harbor. The food is top-notch and the staff is upbeat.”

Among the investments Wölffer made in the Sag Harbor space are a retractable glass front, oak floors imported from Bavaria and new kitchen equipment. The lease is listed for $500,000. It has five years left, with an option for an additional five years.

The Sag Harbor location remains open this winter for dinner from Tuesday through Sunday, and also offers weekend brunch. Wölffer Kitchen Amagansett, at 4 Amagansett Square Drive, is open for dinner Thursday through Sunday and for weekend brunch.

“We’re also going to continue to push the boundaries of what Wölffer can offer, whether that be through our world-class wines, the winestand, the restaurants, the community, the environment, and our relationship to our distributors and restaurant/retail customers,” Mr. Rohn said.

 Facebook

 Twitter

 WhatsApp

 SMS

 Email

 Print
