URL: https://www.27east.com/real-estate-news/marys-marvelous-in-amagansett-to-close-when-new-tenant-is-found-1404430
Date accessed: 2026-10-07
Publication/capture date: 2016-12-09
Note: text extracted from the fetched HTML by the researcher (navigation/ads removed); verbatim article text below.

Mary's Marvelous In Amagansett To Close When New Tenant Is Found By 27east Dec 9, 2016 Dec 9, 2016 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email COURTESY DOUGLAS ELLIMAN By 27east Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett will close when a new tenant is found.
KYRIL BROMLEY By 27east Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett will close after a new tenant is found for the space.
KYRIL BROMLEY By 27east Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett is looking for a new tenant, and will close when one is found.
Mary Schoenlein opened the bakery and gourmet breakfast and lunch spot on Amagansett’s Main Street in 2002, Ten years later she opened a second Mary’s Marvelous on Newtown Lane in East Hampton, after extensive renovations to that space, which used to house Bucket’s Deli.
The plan to consolidate to the west comes because the East Hampton store is a larger facility, with a newer kitchen, according to Robert Kohr of Douglas Elliman, who shares a listing for the Amagansett location with Lori MacGarva.
“Mary’s had a great time there, a great success,”
Mr.
Kohr said, “As soon as we have a deal then she’ll close the doors, but it’s still operating five days a week.”
Mr.
Kohr added: “She’s just going down the road—I’m sure another great spot will go in there.”
A new tenant would pay $625,000 in key money" to acquire the long-term lease for the space at 207 Main Street as well as the kitchen and retail equipment—although not the name Mary’s Marvelous.
The one-story building is 1,100 square feet with outdoor storage and patio spaces, and as one of a finite number of permitted “wet uses” in East Hampton Town, the store can continue to prepare and serve food.
“In one day I’ve had several serious inquiries,”
Mr.
Kohr said on Thursday, December 8.
“All these people know Mary’s is a great spot.”
"
Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save
