URL: https://www.easthamptonstar.com/archive/lifestyle-shops-fill-gansett-square-capacity
Date accessed: 2026-10-07
Publication/capture date: 2016-05-19
Note: text extracted from the fetched HTML by the researcher (navigation/ads removed); verbatim article text below.

Lifestyle Shops Fill Gansett Square to Capacity New exciting businesses opening May. 19, 2016 By Christopher Walsh The commercial and creative churn continues at Amagansett Square.
Soon after Crossroads Music, the Bass shoe outlet, and Miankoma closed their doors, Mandala Yoga Center for Healing Arts moved into the larger space vacated by Bass, and Cavaniola’s Gourmet, a cheese shop, wine cellar, and specialty foods kitchen in Sag Harbor, announced plans to open an outpost in the former Miankoma.
Most recently, French Presse, a laundering service and mobile sales business for linens, has taken up residence in the former Crossroads Music.
A soft opening is planned for this weekend, said Sarah de Havenon, the business’s owner, who launched French Presse as a part-time enterprise but quickly expanded to consulting, organizing, and training on proper care of linens.
A formal opening is set for Memorial Day weekend.
The Pink Chicken, a Manhattan children’s clothing store that operated across Main Street in Amagansett for five years and for the past two summers within Rube, another clothing store at the square, will soon open in the newly divided space that housed Mandala Yoga.
Botanica Bazaar will occupy the other half of that space.
With The Line, an online retailer of fashion, beauty, and home-goods products set to open a pop-up location at the former Sylvester and Co., Amagansett Square’s commercial buildings will be fully occupied.
The French Presse store will serve as the headquarters for Ms. de Havenon’s linen service, as well as offer all things bedding and boudoir, including organic mattresses, pillows, sheets and towels, and loungewear.
“I’ve always loved the square,” said Ms. de Havenon, who previously led classes at Mandala Yoga Center.
“I just love the energy of the square, and the creativity of all the stores around me.
Most of them are owner-run, really like small-shop, curated stores.
There’s a personal connection, instead of a chain store, where you’re just dealing with a salesperson.”
Stacey Fraser, the Pink Chicken’s chief executive officer, said that she is aiming for an opening next Thursday, just in time for the Memorial Day weekend crowds.
“Rube was amazing to take us in for those two summers while we didn’t have a space, but we’re really excited to have our own,” she said.
The store will offer “the best pool floats, crafts and markers, and accessories,” among other items, and will have more room for new products than its previous space, she said.
Alexandra McAuliffe, who lives in East Hampton, will manage the store, which will be open year round, Ms.
Fraser said.
Visitors will be welcomed with tea, snacks, and other refreshments on May 28, and monthly special events are planned.
“We’re excited to become part of the community and get involved with donations and events,” she said.
