URL: https://www.tenantbase.com/us/building/196079
Accessed: 2026-10-07 (fetched via curl; HTML converted to text; navigation boilerplate trimmed)
 519-521 Montauk Highway 
 Create Account 
 Login 
 Long Island Hauppauge 
 519-521 Montauk Highway
 Amagansett , NY 11930
 1 of 11
 About
 Excellent Opportunity to lease or buy Commercial property situated in the heart of Amagansett, in East Hampton Township. This 1.50 Acre property consists of 2 lots with over 200 feet of frontage that is home to a 5,000 SF former restaurant that allows seating up to 186 people. Within walking distance to the LIRR, the Village and just minutes to Ocean beaches this is the ideal location for use as restaurant, wine bar, brewery, convenience store, grocery, general store, furniture or design showroom or nearly any retail commercial use. Please contact Michael Murphy for a private showing and more details. 
 1.5 Acres Zoned Central Business
 Located in the heart of Amagansett
 Restaurant use allows seating for 186
 Walk to village, train and beaches
 Fresh Deal Updated availability in the building recently. Book a tour before it's gone!
 Suite Available
 Suite
 Size
 Monthly Rent
 All-in Price 
 Offices 
 Floorplan
 Suite: 519-521 Montauk Highway
 Size: 5,000 SF 
 Monthly Rent: Negotiable
 Offices: 
 Location
 TenantBase does not represent any properties displayed on this site.
 Listing courtesy of Michael G. Murphy, michael.murphy@elliman.com, Douglas Elliman Commercial - Long Island
 Get in Touch
 Create a free account to request information or schedule tours!
 Create Account 
 Create Account 

=== Context: https://behindthehedges.com/amagansett-commercial-property-lists-8-million (datePublished 2023-06-24) ===
 An aerial view that shows 519-521 Montauk Highway in Amagansett.
 Courtesy of Douglas Elliman
 An Amagansett commercial property, long owned by the Principi family and once eyed for a 7-Eleven, has just come to market as the demand for prime commercial property in the Hamptons continues.
 The 1.5-acre, two-lot parcel at 519-521 Montauk Highway , which includes a 5,000-square-foot, one-story building, has been listed at $7.95 million. It is located on the eastern side of Amagansett, north of the highway, between the Gansett Meadow apartments and Cirillo’s Market I.G.A., which sold for $10.5 million in 2021 .
 “This is the first time it’s ever been available for sale,” says Douglas Elliman’s Melissa Principi, who is not only the listing agent but whose family owns the property.
 Principi explains that because the property is commercially zoned, there is potential for retail and medical, in addition to its restaurant use. Currently, the building is set up to seat 186 people. There are also 80 parking spaces. The property offers 171 feet of road frontage.
 The Principis built the building in 1975 and it was run as a restaurant through the 1990s. Later it was a gallery space and most recently a wine bar. Her family explored turning it into a 7-Eleven a decade ago, but after opposition from the town, abandoned plans, despite a signed lease. The building has been vacant for the last few years.
 The property at 519-521 Montauk Highway in Amagansett Courtesy of Douglas Elliman 
 In the meantime, the area has undergone a metamorphosis. The 37-unit, affordable Gansett Meadow apartment complex was completed in recent years, on property also once owned by the Principis. The apartments are located across the street from the now-decade-old senior housing apartments adjacent to St. Michael’s Lutheran Church.
 “It’s become a little bit of a hub,” Principi says.
 “There has been such a push away from seasonal, from an investment standpoint, from a resident standpoint,” she adds. “I think there was a lot of negative feedback in the village of Amagansett when a lot of those storefronts — Indian Wells Tavern, things like that, changed hands to real seasonal.”
 “Post-pandemic, the Hamptons market, especially the retail market, has certainly moved further away from the traditional seasonal businesses,” says Michael Murphy, president of Douglas Elliman’s Commercial Division. “This has proven to really be like a safe haven. I would say that East End is a safe haven from a retail standpoint. We very much expected a downturn, I think, in the commercial sector in 2023, at least prior to the calendar year, most forecasted as such. But, we’ve been much stronger than we anticipated. And, the demand is tremendous out on that East End, which we’re seeing based on some of the statistics and numbers and assets that have traded.”
 So far this year, there have been some major commercial sales , including the $22 million sale of the former Elie Tahari building in East Hampton Village, now occupied by Louis Vuitton.
 Murphy says the property has versatility and already the property has generated diverse interest from convenience to auto groups to restaurants. “We’ve had a lot of national brands express a lot of genuine interest,” he says.
 “I think partly is a lot of just the zip code of the address and so forth and demographic. But, I think we’ll be in a really good position to kind of cherry-pick the right complimentary fit for not only the community but the family as well,” Murphy adds.
 Principi calls the building “a warm, dark shell,” that Murphy says can be retrofitted to suit a buyer’s needs.
