URL: https://www.easthamptonstar.com/editorials-opinion/2026312/softscaping-amagansett
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Softscaping for Amagansett | The East Hampton Star

 Skip to main content

 Share on Facebook

 Share on Twitter

 Share through email

 Published 6 months ago

 Last updated 6 months ago

Editorial

March 12, 2026 

One thing working in newspapers for decades has taught us is that few things set off a firestorm of indignation more handily than matters of public taste. Exceedingly rare is the instance in which the public applauds the aesthetic choices of its elected officials. Show us a hanging flower basket, and we will show you citizens who hate it. 

So when the East Hampton Town Board revealed its plan to “beautify” Main Street, Amagansett, the objections were sure to follow, as surely as night follows day. In this instance, we applaud the first draft of the proposed plan as, well, a decent first effort, but it cries out for a second go-round. 

The plan as revealed earlier this month calls for the sidewalk to be widened — east to west — on the south side of Main Street, between Hedges Lane and the western entrance to the Amagansett Square parking lot. So far, so good. That is clearly necessary, given that it’s currently impossible for two people to walk side by side in that busy stretch near Amagansett Square. Councilman David Lys’s proposal for bricks set in concrete also seems wise.

Unfortunately, this first-draft plan also calls for “hardscaping” in wide swaths where pedestrian traffic has trampled the existing grass to hard-packed dirt and thin grass, between the street and the buildings containing Jack’s Stir Brew and the Henry Lehr boutiques. Bricks would replace the grass permanently. 

This is too much, in our opinion, and not in keeping with the historical look of the Amagansett commercial district. As one neighbor wrote to The Star, “We can always pave, but seldom unpave.”

Do less. Don’t do nothing. 

What is needed is a defined walkway, not a plaza of brick.

The current plan calls for bricks across the entire area where the existing flow of heavy foot traffic has created trip hazards and compacted dirt. The paving is proposed over the whole zone trampled by pedestrians who are not, at present, directed (by visual clues, the sidewalk, or landscaping) to keep off the grass. In other words, those wide swaths of grass are under such duress only because there is nothing in the existing landscaping to direct pedestrians not to walk there.

What is needed is for the foot traffic to be channeled, directed onto a narrower brick pathway that carries people from the street to the east-west sidewalk. Landscape designers call this a “desire line”:  the route worn down by years of customers shows you where they want to walk and, in this case, they want to walk straight toward the doors to these popular businesses.

To the current proposal, we suggest a counterproposal: a centered A.D.A.-compliant, accessible walkway (perhaps five or six feet wide) from curb to sidewalk, centered on the “desire line” at Jack’s, with restored lawn on either side, plus large planters on either side of the walkway, positioned as edge-definers rather than obstacles. These planters could be filled with greenery that reflects the Amagansett “look,” whether that is hydrangeas or native tall grasses. This would channel foot traffic without making the whole frontage look like a paved plaza. It would also preserve more permeability around the mature trees, which matters aesthetically and practically.

Amagansett — with its benches, hedges, and trees — is blessed with a leafy, soft, village-green feel. That mood must be preserved.

Your support for The East Hampton Star helps us deliver the news, arts, and community information you need. Whether you are an online subscriber, get the paper in the mail, delivered to your door in Manhattan, or are just passing through, every reader counts. We value you for being part of The Star family.

Your subscription to The Star does more than get you great arts, news, sports, and outdoors stories. It makes everything we do possible.

Subscribe to The Star

STAR HATS

Daily Grind

more

Latest Stories

Bonac Football Shuts Out Hills West

NextEra Closes Battery Storage Facilities

Second Guilty Plea in Building Department Bribery Case

Pastor Addresses Concerns About Housing Idea

Daily Grind

more

Keep The Star Shining!

Your Tax-Deductible Support 
When it Matters Most

Copyright © 1996-2026 The East Hampton Star. All rights reserved. 

 Obituaries

 Villages

 Police & Courts

 Government

 Business

 Opinion

 Columnists

 Editorials

 Guestwords

 Food

 Sports

 Letters

 Arts

 Books

 Habitat

 Film

 Galleries

 Museums

 Music

 Theater

 Nightlife

 Living

 Travel

 Education

 Classifieds

 EAST

 Living

 Travel

 Fishing

 Food

 Habitat

 Health

 Nature

 Outdoors

 Sports

 East Magazine

 Garden & Home

 Tides

 More

 About

 Advertise

 Classifieds

 Forms

 Star Store

 Subscribe

 Alerts

 Change Password

 Make a Donation

 Summer Academy

 Top Stories by Email
