URL: https://www.appraisalinstitute.org/getattachment/efe3dcf2-80e0-4565-97a0-9c643479e512/Market-Rent-and-Highest-and-Best-Use.pdf
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Peer-Reviewed Article

Market Rent and
Highest and Best Use:
Joined at the Hip?
by Barry A. Diskin, PhD, MAI, AI-GRS, David C. Lennhoff, MAI, SRA, AI-GRS,
Richard L. Parli, MAI, and Stephen D. Roach, MAI, SRA, AI-GRS
Abstract
It is well established that market value must be premised on the property’s highest and best use. What about
market rent? This article investigates the relationships between highest and best use and market value and market
rent and presents evidence and the rationale for a conclusion that as with market value, market rent also must be
based on the property’s highest and best use. As a part of the investigation, three mini case studies are presented
to illustrate the importance of carefully labeling and developing the appropriate rent. In conjunction with this investigation, use value will be redefined and a new definition of use rent proffered as an aid in diminishing confusion
among the different types of rent.

Introduction
One of the most important steps in an appraisal is
the determination of the type of value to be estimated. This is one of the assignment elements to
be determined as part of problem identification,
which is the first step in the valuation process.1
Furthermore, it is well established that market
value must be estimated in terms of the property’s
highest and best use. Although other legitimate
value estimates can be made—for example, use
value and investment value—for it to be market
value it must be based on the property’s highest
and best use. This fact is supported in appraisal
texts and standards, including the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
and the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal
Land Acquisitions (UASFLA). This connection
to highest and best use is critical because, as noted
in The Appraisal Journal, “it is axiomatic that ‘you
can’t get the value right if you get the highest and
best use wrong.’” 2 But what about market rent?

Must the rent be based on the property’s highest
and best use for it to represent market rent? Does
it matter? In order to answer these questions, it
is necessary to first investigate the relationship
that value and market value have with highest
and best use. The following discussion includes
a clarifying case study and proposes a new definition of use value. The discussion then turns to
the relationship of rent and market rent to highest and best use. Two additional clarifying case
studies are then presented. Finally, a definition is
proffered for a new term, use rent.

Value, Market Value, and
Highest and Best Use
It is well established that market value and highest and best use are connected—the market value
of a property is the value of the property at its
highest and best use. This is in spite of the fact
that there are various definitions of market value

1. Appraisal Institute, chapter 6, “Identifying the Type of Value and Its Definition,” in The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed. (Chicago:
Appraisal Institute, 2020), 47–57.
2. David C. Lennhoff and Richard L. Parli, “Timing Is Everything: The Role of Interim Use in the Highest and Best Use Conclusion,” The
Appraisal Journal (Summer 2020): 198.

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 123

Peer-Reviewed Article

as well as numerous ways to express highest and
best use. The mixing and matching of the description of the two concepts does not change the relationship. The Appraisal of Real Estate, fifteenth
edition, expresses the relationship succinctly:
“Market value opinions are based on the highest
and best use of a property.” 3
This relationship is repeated in numerous
authoritative texts,4 as well as in USPAP 5 and
UASFLA.6 Nonetheless, this relationship is not
self-evident and is not explicit in any of the
numerous definitions of market value, including
the definition used by government agencies that
regulate federally insured financial institutions:
Market value is the most probable price that a property
should bring in a competitive and open market under all
conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller,
each acting prudently, knowledgeably and assuming
the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in
this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a
specified date and the passing of title from seller to
buyer under conditions whereby:
• Buyer and seller are typically motivated;
• Both parties are well informed or well advised, and
acting in what they consider their own best interests;
• A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the
open market;
• Payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in
terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto;
and
• The price represents the normal consideration for the
property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.7

To appreciate the connection, it is necessary to
understand the basic definitions of real estate
value.

On the one hand, value is a generic term, referring to the power of a good or service to command other goods and services in exchange.8
Value as a generic term can be applied to anything tangible or intangible. The determination
of the value of something is normally quite simple because the something is usually, within its
population, both uniform and transportable, and
operating in an active market. The simplicity
arises from the fact that little analysis is required
of the demand and supply for the something
because the market is typically universal.
When the market in question is a real estate
market, however, value is defined as “the monetary relationship between properties and those
who buy, sell, or use those properties.” 9 Real
estate is distinct from other markets in that
real estate is neither uniform nor transportable.
Consequently, the market is unique for each
property. Not only is the market unique for
each property, but the valuation of each property can be uniquely tailored to match the value
question being asked. For instance, the value of
a property can be determined based upon a particular use (use value); based upon particular
investment terms or motivation (investment
value); and/or based upon a property being a
portion of a larger enterprise (value-in-use).10
In each case, the real estate remains the same
but the value is different because the appraisal
does not focus on the entire property, but on a
particular characteristic of the property. In
essence, the focus on each characteristic limits
the analysis, which in turn limits the results
by restricting the considerations. For use value,
the analysis prevents consideration of other,
possibly more valuable, uses. For investment
value, the analysis prevents specific consideration of market terms (except by coincidence).

3. Appraisal Institute, The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 52.
4. See, for example, J. D. Eaton, Real Estate Valuation in Litigation, 2nd ed. (Chicago: Appraisal Institute, 1995), 18; Appraisal Institute, Real
Property Value in Condemnation (Chicago: Appraisal Institute, 2018), 75; James H. Boykin, Land Valuation: Adjustments Procedures and
Assignments (Chicago: Appraisal Institute, 2000), 39.
5. Appraisal Standards Board, Standards Rule 1-3 (a) and (b) in Uniform Standards for Professional Appraisal Practice (Washington, DC: The
Appraisal Foundation, 2020–2021).
6. Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, Section 4.3, “Highest and Best Use” in Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions
(UASFLA), 2016 ed. (Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office, 2016), http://bit.ly/UASFLA.
7. Appraisal Institute, The Dictionary of Real Estate Appraisal, 7th ed. (Chicago: Appraisal Institute, 2022), s.v. “market value.”
8. Arthur A. May, The Valuation of Residential Real Estate, 2nd ed. (New Jersey: Prentice-Hall, 1953), 12.
9. Appraisal Institute, The Dictionary of Real Estate Appraisal, 7th ed., s.v. “value.”
10. See discussion in The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 52–54.

124 The Appraisal Journal • Spring 2022

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Market Rent and Highest and Best Use: Joined at the Hip?

For value-in-use, the analysis prevents the consideration of all but its value in contribution to a
greater enterprise.
Market value, on the other hand, is not a
generic term; it refers to a value that has no artificial conditions or limits imposed.11 Because of
this, market value is not subjective. It is the value
that is strictly market-determined; that is, the
value is the outcome of the competitive and open
interactions of buyers, sellers, and users, who
combine to create market value. These three
component interactions are unique to market
value. Users interact to identify the mostproductive use of the property; buyers interact
with other market participants to identify
demand characteristics and affordability; and
sellers interact to identify the availability of
similar property types. Combined, this inter­
action indicates the most productive use of the
property (i.e., the highest and best use) and
the value of the property for that use.
The market, in this sense, includes all components expected in a competitive, open market.
Open means that all relevant market participants
can engage equally. Competitive indicates that
there is a critical level of supply and demand so as
to assure that the market participants have
choices. Out of the choices, the market participant who offers the highest price for a property
will become the buyer. In short, market value
implies that the owner of the property (the hypothetical seller) should be able to maximize profit
by marketing the property to the highest bidder
(the hypothetical buyer).
Only a competitive and open market allows
transactions that are not artificially limited.
This recognition is embedded in the definition
of market value quoted earlier. Like all market
value definitions, there is no “use” referenced;
it is implied that the “competitive and open
market” will determine the use. This is the case
no matter whether the property is land that is
vacant or land that is improved. It is the market that determines the use (and, in turn, it is
the use that determines value). And the marketdetermined use is the use that is valued to arrive
at market value.

The market-determined use for a particular
property is the property’s highest and best use. The
product of a highest and best use analysis is identification of the most probable use of the property
that results in the highest value—in other words,
the use that will attract the buyer willing to pay
the highest price for the property. After all, if the

If the use is the highest and best use, then
the value will be market value; however,
if the use is a specified use, then the value
will be use value. There can be no mixing
of market value and use value.
hypothetical seller wants to maximize its return,
that can only be accomplished by selling to the
highest bidder. A bidder will pay the highest price
because its use is the most productive use after
consideration of all reasonable alternatives. Any
limitation on use is market dictated—whether it
be a legal, physical, or financial limitation. Whatever the limitation is, it is not an artificial limitation. This distinguishes market value from other
values and prevents it from being a generic term
and a subjective conclusion. Consequently, any
reference to market value unambiguously refers to
the value of the use that is the property’s highest
and best use. In addition, market value unambiguously must be determined by a competitive and
open market. These two conditions produce a
result that is market driven and void of hypothetical conditions.
Ignoring these two conditions can result in an
erroneous value. This is shown in the following
case study, which introduces the fundamental
relationship between the type of use and the type
of value. If the use is the highest and best use,
then the value will be market value; however, if
the use is a specified use, then the value will be
use value. There can be no mixing of market
value and use value.

11. For a good discussion on the history of issues surrounding market value, see Michael V. Sanders, “Market Value: What Does It Really
Mean?” The Appraisal Journal (Summer 2018): 206–218.

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 125

Peer-Reviewed Article
Case Study 1—Market Value
For at least a decade, an argument has continued about
the value of nationally or regionally known drugstores.
The crux of the dispute centers on whether assessors
should use sale-leaseback and build-to-suit transactions
(without adjustment) as indications of market value.
As previously pointed out, understanding the con­
nection between market value and highest and best use
is critical. To illustrate, the following case study presents
a common circumstance that accompanies the mislabeling of market value.
In some areas, there are but two major drugstore
retailers—for this example assume CVS and Walgreens.
Furthermore, assume, by law, the property assessor must
come to an estimate of the market value of the real estate
used by a CVS store. How is that to be accomplished?
The assessor will find, for instance, that if a CVS store
is sold without the typical CVS lease in place, the likely
purchaser is not Walgreens. There are two reasons for
this. First, even a cursory observation will show that the
two firms (for example, CVS and Walgreens) typically
locate their stores near each other. A CVS store is often
on an opposite corner or in the same or next block. This
phenomenon is an example of the principles of cumulative attraction, retail agglomeration, and Hotelling’s law.12
Second, even if the two retailers are not located near
each other, most top-tier retailers have their own building prototype and will not want to be associated with
the competitor’s image. Walgreens will not choose to
be in a building once used by CVS.
So, who is the probable purchaser in an open and
competitive market? We know that there has to be a
probable purchaser, because by definition market value
presumes a transaction—the owner transfers title to a
purchaser. Generally, the transfer of the real estate with
a lease to CVS in place most likely would be to another
investor interested in buying the bond-like arrangement.13 This is true even if the store is vacant since the
real estate is of secondary importance. Determining the
market value of the fee simple interest in such a property requires first looking to the highest and best use
of the property, which requires a determination of the

most likely purchaser assuming that the property would
be exposed to a competitive and open market. Market
observation reveals that most sales of property developed under build-to-suit arrangements are purchased
for a secondary use, such as a non–brand-name retailer,
or modified for an adaptive reuse.14

The crux of the dispute centers on
whether assessors should use sale-leaseback
and build-to-suit transactions (without
adjustment) as indications of market value.
Buildings for some businesses, especially retail and
restaurants, have design features and improvements
that are valuable only to a single business/user, because
they are part of the business’s branding. Examples of
this are common and include fast-food franchises (e.g.,
McDonald’s with their golden arches), and dine-in
restaurants (e.g., Cracker Barrel); the building design is so
immediately recognizable that it does not even require a
sign.15 Although these special components contribute to
the business, they rarely have value in the marketplace.
Instead, these items are segments of the going concern
of the business.16
As noted, Walgreens and other similar retailers often
enter into long-term leases; they choose not to tie
up their capital in real estate. A common agreement
between the lessor and lessee for CVS or Walgreens
includes a sale-leaseback agreement whereby the retailer
owns a finished store that meets their needs, sells the
property, and then leases the store back on a net basis.
The concern with this arrangement from a valuation
perspective is clearly expressed in The Appraisal of Real
Estate, fifteenth edition:
Sale-leaseback transactions must be used with caution
because the lease is usually negotiated as part of the

12. According to Hotelling’s law, there is an “undue tendency for competitors to imitate each other in quality of goods, in location, and in other
essential ways.” “Hotelling’s Law,” in The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Strategic Management, 2018 ed., https://bit.ly/3PLxbEF.
13. The analogy of a national brand lease to a corporate bond is common. Discussions with brokers who specialize in the sale of these
arrangements confirm that typical buyers view the transactions as having strong similarities to bonds. Interviews with investors/buyers
corroborate the broker information.
14. In fact, when CVS absorbed Eckerd’s, the majority of the closed stores quickly found lessees, including car dealerships, grocery stores, and
other specialty retailers.
15. Barry A. Diskin and Jack P. Friedman, “Taxation of ‘Branding‘ Leasehold Improvements,” Property Tax Alert 4, no. 1 (March 2006).
16. See Douglas D. Lovell, “Does Your Client Really Need a Market Value Estimate?” The Real Estate Appraiser (May 1991): 11.

126 The Appraisal Journal • Spring 2022

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Market Rent and Highest and Best Use: Joined at the Hip?
sale rather than as an independent, market-based lease
negotiation. Sale-leasebacks that are negotiated as
financing vehicles may reflect motivations of the tenant
and landlord that are not typical of the market.17

Some assessors assert that drugstores with national
recognition create their own highest and best use category. There is a viewpoint that the real estate needs for
users like major drug retailers are profoundly different
from other retail users. That argument holds that market
value for CVS and Walgreens should be higher because
these stores tend to locate at high-traffic corners at
traffic-­controlled intersections. The evidence indicates
otherwise, however. Other retail users also need a
specific-­size building at high-traffic intersections. Examples include fast-food restaurants, banks, convenience
stores with gasoline pumps, and shopping centers. Many
businesses operate with a particular prototype building
on a preferred site size. The concept is not unique to
nationally known drugstores, and the relationship of
their initial sale price to market value also is not unique.

It is noteworthy that the definition of market
value quoted earlier not only describes market
value but also provides the rules (components)
for determining market value. No other type of
value is defined in this way. For instance, use
value is described as follows:
Use value is “the value of a property based on a specific
use, which may or may not be the property’s highest
and best use. If the specified use is the property’s highest and best use, use value will be equivalent to market
value. If the specified use is not the property’s highest
and best use, use value will be equivalent to the property’s market value based on the hypothetical condition
that the only possible use is the specified use.18

This definition is silent regarding the rules for
applying the definition. No mention is made
requiring a competitive and open market, no
mention is made of conditions requisite to a fair
sale, no mention is made of dictating actions by
the buyer and seller. In short, the use value definition places no restrictions on the details of the
transaction. For these reasons—and in order to
distinguish and standardize the application of use
value—the following definition is proposed:

Use value is the most probable price that a property put
to a specified use should bring in a competitive and
open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale,
the buyer and seller, each acting prudently, knowledgeably and assuming the price is not affected by undue
stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation
of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title
from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:
• buyer and seller are typically motivated;
• both parties are well informed or well advised, and
each acting in what it considers its own best interest;
• a reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open
market;
• payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in
terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto;
and
• the price represents the normal consideration for the
property sold, unaffected by special or creative
financing or sales concessions granted by anyone
associated with the sale.

Note that the specified use is the only difference
from market value. A competitive and open market is required, and the actions of the buyer and
seller are defined, but the use is presumed to be
limited to less than the property’s highest and
best use.

Rent, Market Rent, and
Highest and Best Use
If highest and best use determines market value,
what determines highest and best use? In large
part, it is market rent. It is axiomatic that a property’s highest and best use will have the highest
rent of the alternative uses, all else being equal.
But, market rent can be determined as an independent calculation. Is it also tied to highest and
best use similar to market value? The discipline
associated with the application of market value
should be duplicated with market rent. The current definition of market rent is as follows:
The most probable rent that a property should bring in
a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair lease transaction, the lessee and lessor
each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assum-

17. Appraisal Institute, The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 438.
18. Appraisal Institute, The Dictionary of Real Estate Appraisal, 7th ed., s.v. “use value.”

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 127

Peer-Reviewed Article
ing the rent is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit
in this definition is the execution of a lease as of a specified date under conditions whereby
• Lessee and lessor are typically motivated;
• Both parties are well informed or well advised, and
acting in what they consider their best interests;
• Payment is made in terms of cash or in terms of
financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
• The rent reflects specified terms and conditions typically found in that market, such as permitted uses, use
restrictions, expense obligations, duration, concessions, rental adjustments and revaluations, renewal
and purchase options, frequency of payments (annual,
monthly, etc.), and tenant improvements (TIs).19

This definition is modeled like the definition of
market value. Both assume knowledgeable participants, which is a key component of the market in
both market value and market rent. For the same
reasons that market value is tied to highest and
best use, market rent is tied to highest and best
use. In addition, market rent unambiguously
must be determined by a com­petitive and open
market. These two conditions produce a result
that is market driven and void of hypothetical
conditions imposed on the market. As with market value, ignoring these two conditions can
result in an erroneous rental rate. This is shown
in the following case study.
Case Study 2—Market Rent
This second case study looks at determination of market
rent, with an emphasis on the build-to-suit market and
the related rents.
As with sale-leaseback arrangements, national
retailers including CVS, Walgreens, and others often
enter into build-to-suit agreements whereby a developer is retained to produce the finished store, and
upon completion, the retailer leases the property at an
agreed upon rate of return from the developer. Retailers enter into these agreements to avoid tying up their
capital in real estate development when it would be
better deployed within the business. These build-to-suit
arrangements are rarely, if ever, exposed to the market
and, therefore, do not meet the criteria for market rent.

The rent is simply a function of cost to construct and
may include non-realty components.
In his Appraisal Journal article Robert W. Hartmann
states, “Sale-leaseback and build-to-suit transactions
are, in essence, financing vehicles and not necessarily
market-derived transactions.” 20 The income streams
associated with build-to-suit and sale-leaseback arrangements, by default, contain the effect of financing. The
Appraisal of Real Estate and the Appraisal Foundation
include language supportive of this contention.21
For CVS and Walgreens, there is a great likelihood the
rent figures are based on the cost of a turnkey finished
property, include a component for financing, and are
influenced by the intangible of a lease that is guaranteed by a nationally known retail firm. If any of these
elements are present, the rental rate includes non-realty
components.22 For this reason, such rents are not market
rent and, therefore, should not be used to estimate the
market rent of the fee simple interest. The results of
doing so can be dramatic. Consider the following buildto-suit example.
Suppose the valuation assignment involves real estate
with the following characteristics:
•	Freestanding retail pharmacy on 1.7 acres of land
•	Parking for 78 cars
•	Highly visible site with easy access and traffic control
•	Single-story facility with gross building area of
13,000 square feet
•	Cost of construction was $2,300,000, including
numerous business-specific custom features
•	Site cost was $1,250,000. (The high land-to-total
cost ratio is not unusual. Frequently freestanding
pharmacies buy improved sites and raze the
improvement, as business value more than covers
the above-market cost.)
•	All-in cost was $3,550,000
•	Annual rent is based on 8% of all-in cost—
$284,000 or $21.85 per square foot
Current rental comparables in the immediate area for
freestanding retail properties range from $15–$18.
These are all second-generation store uses, but with
similar freestanding retail highest and best uses.
A few years after construction the property owner
sold the leased fee to a group of dentists at a 6% capi-

19. Appraisal Institute, The Dictionary of Real Estate Appraisal, 7th ed., s.v. “market rent.”
20. Robert W. Hartmann, “Valuation for Loans on Restaurants,” The Appraisal Journal (October 1996): 411.
21. Appraisal Institute, The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 438; and Appraisal Practices Board, APB Valuation Advisory 2: Adjusting
Comparable Sales for Seller Concessions (Washington, DC: The Appraisal Foundation, March 7, 2012), 15, https://bit.ly/3cxhtii.
22. Moreover, accurately segregating these non-realty elements from the total lease payment is difficult because the lack of data prevents any
systematic method to segregate the elements.

128 The Appraisal Journal • Spring 2022

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Market Rent and Highest and Best Use: Joined at the Hip?
talization rate, or $4,733,333. The successfully operated
store is reassessed, in fee simple (meaning, available
to be leased at market), for real estate tax purposes
at $5,000,000, based mostly on capitalization of the
build-to-suit rent. In this example, substituting build-tosuit rent for market rent results in a value obviously well
above market value of the fee simple interest.

Case Study 3—Market Rent
The third case study involves a condemnation action in
California that presented several interesting issues related
to market rent. It concerns the determination of the market rent for a project that is mixed use by timing.23
The property is a 50,000-square-foot parcel located
along a major street in a major city. The site is improved
with a 20,000-square-foot, forty-year-old retail building
occupied by a discount retailer that is the original
tenant in the building. The balance of the site is
devoted to surface parking. The business conducted
on the property has been highly successful and profitable; the sales per square foot are among the highest
in the forty-store chain.
The land use regulations permit a wide variety of
commercial and residential uses, and the height and
density regulations would permit a building up to about
twenty stories. Several similar nearby properties had
recently been redeveloped with condominium towers
having residential units over ground-floor retail space.
Analysis of these properties, nearby sales, and other
market metrics led to a conclusion that the highest and
best use would be redevelopment with a twenty-story
mixed-use commercial/residential tower. Although the
development would have been physically possible and
economically feasible, the timing of development could
not have been “now” because the site was not entitled
for that use. An entitlement expert who had processed
entitlements for a number of properties in the immediate area opined that it would take about six years to
process environmental approvals and building plans, and
to obtain actionable entitlements to build the project.
In the condemnation action, the property was valued
by appraisers retained by both the public agency and
the property owner. Although there was disagreement
over the value of the property, the appraisers reached
very similar highest and best use conclusions, including
conclusions regarding the height, bulk, and mixed-use
nature of the building, and conclusions regarding the
timing of the use. In other words, both appraisers concluded that the highest and best use of the property was

redevelopment of the property in about six years when
entitlements could be obtained and retention of the
retail interim use until that time. Consistent with their
conclusions regarding the timing of the highest and best
use, both appraisers relied solely on the sales comparison approach to appraise the property. However, the
appraisers were also requested to provide an opinion of
the market rent for the property, which was a required
input into business goodwill valuations that were being
conducted by forensic accountants (loss of business
goodwill is a compensable element of compensation
in con­demnation cases in California).

The third case study involves a
condemnation action in California
that presented several interesting
issues related to market rent.
Keeping these facts in mind, what is the market rent
for the property on the date of appraisal for the period
of time during which the retail use would remain pending redevelopment? The issue can be illuminated
by examining the positions of the two parties:
The appraiser for the public agency concluded that the
market rent for the property was $2,400,000 per year,24
or $120 per square foot of building area per year. The
appraiser reached this conclusion by applying a 6% rate
of return (extracted from the market) to the $40,000,000
value conclusion for the property. The conclusion was
silent regarding additional terms of the market rent.
The appraiser for the property owner concluded that
the market rent was $840,000 per year, or $42 per
square foot per year. The appraiser reached this conclusion by analyzing recent leases of similar retail properties
devoted to similar uses, including several leases to the
same user. Additional concluded terms included a sixyear lease, rent escalation of 3% per year, tenant paying
all utilities and minor maintenance, and no landlord
concessions.
To help bridge the gap between the valuation conclusions, consider the positions of the respective appraisers
in light of the recognition that market rent must be
based on the highest and best use of the property for
which the market rent is being determined.

23. Lennhoff and Parli, “Timing Is Everything: The Role of Interim Use in the Highest and Best Use Conclusion,” The Appraisal Journal.
24. All rental figures used in this example are net.

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 129

Peer-Reviewed Article
The agency’s appraiser’s conclusion does not reflect
that the highest and best use of the property has two
components—the retention of the retail use for six years,
and then redevelopment of the property.25 This situation is
an example of an interim use. In this case, the interim use
is due to a delay in legal permissibility. Here, the highest
and best use of the property as of the effective date of
the appraisal was not solely continued retail use nor was
it solely future mixed-use redevelopment—it was both.26
Since the highest and best use of the property for the
six years following the effective date of the valuation
included retention of the improvements on the property,
the only way to harmonize the concepts of market rent
and highest and best use is to conclude that the market
rent on the date of appraisal was for retail use. Applying
a return on the value of the property, as the agency’s
appraiser did, improperly merged the components of
highest and best use and commingled the timing of
the interim use and the future use.
Market rent, like market value, is as of a specific date.
The highest and best use determination mandated that,
in this case, market rent was for retail use consistent
with the existing building. The probability that use of
the property in the future may change should not influence the conclusion of market rent in the present.
Now suppose some of the facts of the case study
are changed to further illustrate the linkage between
market rent and highest and best use. Assume the
same property and the occupant but no six-year delay
to obtain entitlements, the property is fully entitled for
redevelopment, and the value of the land for redevelopment far exceeds the value of the property under the
current discount retail use. Given that the highest and
best use timing is now under this scenario, there is no
interim use and the market rent would be based on the
development highest and best use.

Case Study 3 demonstrates that all highest and
best use conclusions are on a timeline that pro­
gress through component uses. This is especially
the case with a proposed mixed-use property
when one of the uses is an interim use. Even with
a “single use” project, the use is “single” only
because of the inability to predict far enough in
the future. In this sense, all uses are interim uses.

Exhibit 1 Relationship between
Highest and Best Use, Market
Value, and Market Rent

Highest & Best Use

Market Value

Market Rent

This recognition mandates that the market rent
associated with a highest and best use is the use
that is immediately operative. In other words, a
highest and best use has a macro level and a
micro level. The macro level addresses the three
highest and best conclusions (use, timing, market
participants), while the micro level addresses the
use that is the result of the timing dictated by the
macro highest and best use. In this way, both
market value and market rent are connected at
the hip to highest and best use, with market
value based on the macro highest and best use
and market rent based on the micro highest and
best use, i.e., the immediate use of the property.
The flowchart in Exhibit 1 shows that both market value and market rent are equally dependent
on a property’s highest and best use.
Just as there are many types of value, e.g., use
value, insurable value, and investment value,
there are a number of types of rent. In fact, The
Appraisal of Real Estate lists eight different types
of rent:27
•	Market rent
•	Deficit rent
•	Contract rent
•	Base rent
•	Effective rent
•	Percentage rent
•	Excess rent
•	Overage rent
The important distinction between use value and
market value is that use value is based on a specific use, which may or may not be the property’s
highest and best use. “If the specified use is the

25. The purpose of the market rent estimate in this matter was to support a valuation of the business goodwill of the retailer. Since the retailer
would have been displaced upon redevelopment, only the referenced six-year period is at issue.
26. “There are not two highest and best use conclusions. An interim use is not in itself a highest and best use. Rather, an interim use is part of a
highest and best use.” Appraisal Institute, Real Property Valuation in Condemnation (Chicago: Appraisal Institute, 2018), 83–84.
27. Appraisal Institute, The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 420.

130 The Appraisal Journal • Spring 2022

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Market Rent and Highest and Best Use: Joined at the Hip?

prop­erty’s highest and best use, the use value will
be equivalent to market value.” 28 However,
although they are equivalent, they are not synonymous. Just as a capitalization rate and a yield
rate might be the same number (as when no
change in income or value is projected over the
holding period), they are also not synonymous.
There is no formal term “use rent,” but perhaps
there should be, as the issue of market rent is
really a labeling issue. Absent the distinction
between use rent and market rent, however,
appraisers may not consider the difference
between the two and end up estimating the use
rent when they are supposed to be estimating the
market rent.
Under the paragraph heading “Market Rent
and Highest and Best Use,” UASFLA states as
follows:
[I]n developing an appraisal for a leasehold, the
appraiser must use the definition of market rental value
[in Section 1.5.4.1]. As part of the development of an
appraisal for a leasehold acquisition, the appraiser must
determine the highest and best use of the property (as
improved) that is the subject of the leasehold. This
requirement is critical to the selection of comparable
rents used in the valuation process.”29

This indicates that the UASFLA recognizes market rent must be premised on the property’s highest and best use. And just as the market value
depends on getting the highest and best use right,
so does market rent. The market rent cannot be
right if the highest and best use conclusion is
wrong, or if the highest and best use is ignored
and market rent is estimated based on the existing use. This relationship is further confirmed in
The Appraisal of Real Estate, fifteenth edition,
which states “if the current rent and terms of a
leased parcel correspond to market rent and
terms for comparable leased parcels with similar
highest and best uses [emphasis added] then only a
property rights adjustment would be necessary.” 30

The connection to highest and best use is what
distinguishes market rent from other rent types.
Consequently, any reference to market value
unambiguously refers to the rent of the use that is
the property’s highest and best use. In addition,
market rent unambiguously must be determined
by a competitive and open market. These two
conditions produce a rent that is market driven
and void of hypothetical conditions imposed on
the market.
As noted earlier, one way to diminish confusion about what market rent means would be to
formulate a definition of use rent to differentiate
it from market rent. To achieve that goal, the following use rent definition is proposed:
The most probable rent that a property limited to a specific use would bring in a competitive and open market
under all conditions requisite to a fair lease transaction,
the lessee and lessor each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assuming the rent is not affected by undue
stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the execution of a
lease as of a specified date under conditions whereby
• Lessee and lessor are typically motivated;
• Both parties are well informed or well advised, and
acting in what they consider their best interests;
• Payment is made in terms of cash or in terms of
financial arrangements comparable thereto; and
• The rent reflects specified terms and conditions typically found in that market, such as permitted uses, use
restrictions, expense obligations, duration, concessions, rental adjustments and revaluations, renewal
and purchase options, frequency of payments (annual,
monthly, etc.), and tenant improvements (TIs).

To summarize, the key to market rent is the “market,” which implies the most probable rent the
market would pay, which in turn implies the
property’s highest and best use. This is because
the market rent estimate, as with a market value
estimate, would be the “highest value reflected
by detailed analyses of all logical potential use
and development alternatives.” 31

28. Appraisal Institute, The Dictionary of Real Estate Appraisal, 7th ed., s.v. “use value.”
29. Interagency Land Acquisition Conference, Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions (UASFLA), 2016 ed. (Washington, DC:
US Government Printing Office, 2016), 39.
30. Appraisal Institute, The Appraisal of Real Estate, 15th ed., 345.
31. Harold D. Albritton, Controversies in Real Property Valuation: A Commentary (Chicago: American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers of the
National Association of Realtors, 1982), 9–10.

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 131

Peer-Reviewed Article

Summary and Conclusions
This article demonstrates how both market value
and market rent are inextricably tied to the highest and best use of the asset being valued.
Although there are other types of value and other
types of rent, if the wrong value or the wrong
type of rent is estimated, then the result will be
the wrong answer to the appraisal problem. As
the mini case studies illustrate, that answer could
be significantly different than the correct one.
Just as there is no concept of “market value in
use,” there is no such thing as “market rent in

use.” To clarify this point, a definition of use rent
has been suggested in this article. Note that use
rent might be higher or lower than market rent
or equal to market rent—however, it is never
synonymous with market rent, although they
may at times be the same number. As explained,
the type of value sought will influence the type of
rent estimated and together they define the
appraisal problem to be solved or the question to
be answered. Clarifying the distinction among
value types and rent types should reduce the likelihood of an appraisal unintentionally answering
the wrong question related to market rent.

About the Authors
Barry A. Diskin, PhD, MAI, AI-GRS, is the principal in the firm Diskin Property Research. He is a consulting analyst
with Cushman & Wakefield. The focus of his litigation support practice includes eminent domain, property tax, and
contamination issues. From the fall of 1980 through the spring of 2015, Diskin was a professor in the College of
Business at Florida State University. During his 35 years at FSU, he taught courses in real estate valuation to seniors
at the undergraduate level as well as graduate students; he received two university-level teaching awards. Today, his
teaching activities continue as a member of the faculty of the Appraisal Institute. Diskin received a master’s degree
in finance and a PhD in land economics from Georgia State University. Professional designations include the MAI and
AI-GRS. He is a member of the Real Estate Counseling Group of America, a group of practitioners and academicians.
Diskin has published articles on various topics in such journals as Real Estate Issues, Assessment Journal, Journal of
Property Valuation and Taxation, The Appraisal Journal, American Business Law Journal, National Tax Journal, Journal
of Real Estate Research, Chartered Property and Casualty Underwriters Journal, Right of Way, Real Estate Appraiser
and Analyst, Journal of Real Estate Appraisal and Economics, Assessment Digest, Real Estate Economics, and Inter­
national Journal of Business Disciplines. He is a member of The Appraisal Journal Academic Review Panel. Diskin has
testified in more than forty counties in Florida and in a number of other states, including Maine, Michigan, South
Carolina, Arizona, and California. He has appeared before committees of the Florida legislature on several occasions
and appeared as a guest expert on national television. Contact: diskin@diskinproperty.com
David C. Lennhoff, MAI, SRA, AI-GRS, is a principal with Lennhoff Real Estate Consulting LLC, which is officed
in Gaithersburg, Maryland. His practice centers on litigation valuation and expert testimony relating to appraisal
methodology, USPAP, and allocating assets of a going concern. He has taught nationally and internationally for
the Appraisal Institute. International presentations have been in Tokyo, Japan; Beijing and Shanghai, China; Berlin,
Germany; Seoul, South Korea; and Mexico City, Mexico. He has been a development team member for numerous
Appraisal Institute courses and seminars and was editor of its Capitalization Theory and Techniques Study Guide,
third edition. He was the lead developer for the Appraisal Institute’s asset allocation course, Fundamentals of
Separating Real and Personal Property from Intangible Business Assets, and edited the two accompanying business
enterprise value anthologies. He also authored the Appraisal Institute’s Small Hotel/Motel Valuation seminar. Lennhoff
is a principal member of the Real Estate Counseling Group of America, a national organization of analysts and
academicians founded by the late William N. Kinnard Jr., PhD. He is a past editor-in-chief of and frequent contributor
to The Appraisal Journal, and a past recipient of the Journal’s Armstrong/Kahn Award and a two-time winner of the
Swango Award. Contact: david.lennhoff@gmail.com
SEE NEXT PAGE FOR ADDITIONAL RESOURCES >

132 The Appraisal Journal • Spring 2022

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Market Rent and Highest and Best Use: Joined at the Hip?
Richard L. Parli, MAI, is president of Parli Appraisal Inc., a full-service appraisal firm located in Warrenton, Virginia.
He has been involved in the development of numerous Appraisal Institute courses and seminars, is a coauthor of the
Appraisal Institute text The Valuation of Apartment Properties, and is a professional faculty member of the Johns
Hopkins Carey Graduate School of Business. He has an MBA in finance from the Pennsylvania State University and
is a principal member of the Real Estate Counseling Group of America. He is a past recipient of The Appraisal Journal’s
Swango Award and a three-time winner of the Armstrong/Kahn Award. Contact: rparli@parliappraisal.com
Stephen D. Roach, MAI, SRA, AI-GRS, CDEI, has been an appraiser for over forty-two years. His appraisal assignments have included significant and complex assignments throughout the United States. Roach holds a bachelor
of science degree in real estate from San Diego State University, and he has extensive deposition and trial testimony
experience. Roach is a contributing editor to numerous Appraisal Institute books, courses, and seminars. His Appraisal
Institute teaching experience includes basic and advanced courses on income capitalization, litigation courses, and
over 200 additional courses and seminars. In addition to teaching courses throughout the United States, Roach has
led appraisal courses, seminars, or lectures in Switzerland, Germany, South Korea, Japan, and China. He also has
served as a visiting professor of appraisal theory and practice at the International Center for Land Policy Studies and
Training in Taipei, Taiwan, since 2004. Roach is a principal member of the Real Estate Counseling Group of America.
Contact: steve@jrcvaluation.com

Additional Resources
Suggested by the Y. T. and Louise Lee Lum Library

Appraisal Institute
• Education
		 http://www.appraisalinstitute.org/assets/1/7/aiedcat.pdf
• Guide Notes to the Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice
		 https://www.appraisalinstitute.org/assets/1/7/AI_Guide_Notes.pdf
• Lum Library, Knowledge Base [Login required]
		 Value
• Property Rights Symposium Discussion Paper
		 http://bit.ly/SymposiumPaper

www.appraisalinstitute.org

Spring 2022 • The Appraisal Journal 133

