URL: https://www.nrn.com/restaurant-insights/restaurant-industry-faces-modest-growth-amid-cost-pressures-in-2026
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Restaurants face modest growth amid cost pressures in 2026 

Insights
Finance
Operations
News

Restaurant industry faces modest growth amid cost pressures in 2026
The National Restaurant Association projects 1.3% real sales growth and an uncertain labor market

Alicia Kelso,Executive Editor,Nation's Restaurant News
February 12, 2026
4 Min Read

The National Restaurant Association forecasts real sales growth of 1.3%Photo courtesy of Pexels / Mustata Silva

The National Restaurant Association released its 2026 State of the Industry report today, predicting modest growth and continued cost pressures impacting both consumers and operators. The association forecasts real sales growth of 1.3%, which would equate to $1.55 trillion in total restaurant and foodservice sales.
In a letter, president and chief executive officer Michelle Korsmo wrote that 2025 proved to be a challenging year driven by uncertainty and high food and labor costs, as well as a tightening labor market. Slower job and wage growth toward the back half of the year constrained consumer spending, leading to traffic declines across much of the industry.
“Looking ahead to 2026, the business environment remains challenging,” she wrote. “Persistent cost pressures and uneven traffic continue to strain profitability, with elevated expenses expected to persist. At the same time, consumer budgets remain tight, particularly among low- and middle-income households.”
Related:Takeaways from 3 industry pros at the CREATE conference
Here are some key takeaways from the State of the Industry report:
Economic forecast
Consumer spending at restaurants is projected to rise, albeit at a moderate pace amid slower job and wage growth, combined with an elevated cost of living, and dwindling consumer sentiment. The K-shaped economy is impacting spending habits, with higher-income consumers driving much of the growth. Conversely, lower-income consumers pulled back and more than 60% of operators reported traffic declines in 2025, while only 15% experienced an increase.
Further, 40% of consumers are cutting their restaurant frequency.
Despite consumers’ persistent challenges, however, restaurant usage continues to be a priority; restaurant share of the household food dollar is 53%. Nearly 60% of consumers say dining at restaurants is “essential” to their lifestyles, while just over half say the same thing about using delivery, takeout, and drive-thrus. This percentage is higher for Gen Z and Millennial consumers.
A bigger opportunity exists, as more than 70% of consumers said they would use restaurants more if they had the money. This pent-up demand rises to nearly 90% for Gen Z consumers and 84% for Millennials.
Value and loyalty are key
According to the report, operators can leverage that opportunity by offering value promotions or discounts. More than 80% of diners consider such offerings when choosing a restaurant.
Consumers also remain loyal to their rewards programs, with 70% being a part of such a program and considering it important when choosing a restaurant.
Related:What will foodservice look like in 10 years?
Operators remain under pressure
Despite overall economic growth in 2025, uncertainty surrounding government policies, high costs, and the labor market led to a decline in business confidence. More than 90% of operators said food, labor, insurance, and overall inflation continue to be significant challenges, while more than 80% feel significant strain from credit and debit card processing fees, as well as energy and utility costs.
Two-thirds of operators said tariffs on imported food and beverage items posed a significant challenge. Average food costs are now more than 35% above pre-pandemic levels, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 2025, 82% of operators reported higher average food costs, and 68% said tariffs drove higher costs.
While menu price increases helped offset some costs, little flexibility remains for operators after several years of elevated pricing. Most operators have shopped around for other suppliers, removed items from the menu, or negotiated with existing suppliers to navigate the environment. More than one-third of operators cut costs in other areas of operation, increased tracking of their food waste, or adjusted portion sizes.
Amid this backdrop, 42% of operators said their businesses weren’t profitable in 2025, while 60% of operators said their business conditions have deteriorated, and just 15% said they were better than they were in 2024.
Related:What will the foodservice industry look like in 10 years?
Price pressures will remain in 2026 and both full-service and limited-service operators expect the economy to be their top challenge this year. Thirty-two percent of full-service operators expect their sales to be higher this year versus 2025, while 47% expect them to be similar. The outlook for limited-service operators is more tempered, with 29% expecting higher sales and 27% expecting a decline.
Cautious optimism
Though most operators are worried about higher costs, the association warns that the recent slowdown in hiring is the biggest risk for the industry and the broader economy. Payrolls in 2025 increased by 181,000, much lower than the 2.52 million in 2023, and 1.46 million in 2024.
That said, low unemployment and wage growth, while slowing, continue, providing households with purchasing power and operators with reasons for cautious optimism.
The National Restaurant Association projects real GDP growth of 2.7% in 2026, up from 2.3% in 2025. Consumer spending is expected to remain divided, with higher-income households spending more freely while others stay focused on value. However, even budget-conscious consumers continue to prioritize eating out, which helps support sales despite softer traffic. Further, about three-quarters of consumers expect their personal finances to improve or hold steady throughout the next year.
Success in 2026, the association noted, will depend on a healthier labor market and easing economic uncertainty that encourages consumers to spend more freely.
Contact Alicia Kelso at [email protected]
Follow her on TikTok: @aliciakelso

About the Author

Alicia Kelso

Executive Editor, Nation's Restaurant News

Alicia Kelso is the executive editor of Nation's Restaurant News. She began covering the restaurant industry in 2010 for QSRweb.com, FastCasual.com, and PizzaMarketplace.com. When her son was born, she left the industry to pursue a role in higher education, but swiftly returned after realizing how much she missed the space. In filling that void, Alicia added a contributor role at Restaurant Dive and a senior contributor role at Forbes.
Her work has appeared in publications around the world, including Forbes Asia, NPR, Bloomberg, The Seattle Times, Crain's Chicago, Good Morning America, and Franchise Asia Magazine.
Alicia holds a degree in journalism from Bowling Green State University, where she competed on the women's swim team. In addition to cheering for the BGSU Falcons, Alicia is a rabid Michigan fan and will talk about college football with anyone willing to engage. She lives in Louisville, Kentucky, with her wife and son.
Follow her on TikTok @aliciakelso
See more from Alicia Kelso

Subscribe Nation's Restaurant News Newsletters
Get the latest breaking news in the industry, analysis, research, recipes, consumer trends, the latest products and more.
Sign Up Now

Top 500 Restaurants

Content Spotlight
The Technomic Top 500: Another tough year for chain restaurants

Top 500 chain restaurant sales slowed again in 2025 as consumers cut back on dining, but sectors like coffee, beverages and snacks and chicken thrived
Read More

Featured

Emerging Chains
How emerging chain Hawaiian Bros plans to bump AUV from $2.5M to $3.5M
How emerging chain Hawaiian Bros plans to bump AUV from $2.5M to $3.5M
Sep 30, 2026

Casual Dining
California Pizza Kitchen redefined chain pizza in the 80s using a strategy that still works
California Pizza Kitchen redefined chain pizza in the 80s using a strategy that still works
Sep 23, 2026

Recent NewsSee all

Executives

CKE Restaurants names Alisa Gmelich president of Hardee’sCKE Restaurants names Alisa Gmelich president of Hardee’s

byJonathan Maze
Oct 7, 2026

1 Min Read

Casual Dining

Content Spotlight
Get to know Rick Cardenas, the Darden CEO who started there as a busser

The executive shares his advice, along with his most-binged TV show, favorite sports team, and most-used app
Watch Now
