URL: https://wwd.com/business-news/retail/hamptons-retail-scene-whats-new-for-summer-2026-1238932696/
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Hamptons Retail Scene: What's New and Different for Summer 2026

 Skip to main content 

 Fashion

 Luca de Meo Discusses Creativity — and ‘Reengineering’ Kering 

 Fashion

 Pierre Cardin Spring 2027: Future Focus 

 Home Design

 Ginori 1735 Revives Forgotten Renaissance Game 

 The new Sam Edelman shop in Southampton.

 Courtesy image

 Share this article on Facebook

 Share this article on X

 Share this article on Pin It

 Share this article on Tumblr

 Share this article on Reddit

 Share this article on LinkedIn

 Share this article on WhatsApp

 Share this article on Email

 Print this article

 Share this article on Talk

 Share this article on Facebook

 Share this article on X

 Share this article on Pin It

 Share this article on Tumblr

 Share this article on Reddit

 Share this article on LinkedIn

 Share this article on WhatsApp

 Share this article on Email

 Print this article

 Share this article on Talk

 Along with the beach, the patio barbecues, and the blue hydrangeas, a big part of the Hamptons scene each summer involves strolling the quaint village streets to check out the newest shops and those returning with their latest offerings.

 As always, there’s a batch of newcomers that have arrived in the Hamptons this year, or are soon to open, with formats for fashion, footwear, food or for just plain fun for the kids, enough to make it interesting for those summering on Long Island’s South Fork. Every luxury or upscale brand wants a presence in the Hamptons, whether year-round or a seasonal pop-up. But available commercial real estate remains scarce, indicating that business remains healthy in the area, with the affluent not pulling back on their discretionary spending despite the already sky-high costs of living there that is only increasing. The surging stock market and recent proliferation of Wall Street bonuses make the affluent feel richer. COVID-19 saw an exodus of families from the city to the suburbs, fueling the retail trade, and leaving few businesses abandoning the area and making room for others.

 Related Articles 

 Industry News

 Holiday Shoppers Prioritize Festivities Despite Growing Financial Strain, ICSC Survey Finds 

 Industry News

 California Governor Signs Off on Bill Granting Retailers Easier, Speedier Permits for Storefront Improvements 

 “There have not been many vacancies, just a few,” said Lee Minetree, associate real estate broker at Saunders Associates. “Before COVID after every season, there were vacancies. Since then, the villages, particularly East Hampton and Sag Harbor, haven’t had many. It’s a good thing not to have empty stores, but it’s a bad thing for people looking to do pop-ups.”

 You May Also Like 

 The Hamptons’ residential market is also very tight, driving prices on homes way up. According to real estate firm Douglas Elliman’s fourth-quarter 2025 report, the median sale price of homes in the Hamptons rose 33.6 percent year-over-year, with the average price at just over $3.76 million. Hamptons homes priced $5 million and above occupied a record-setting 17 percent of sales in the fourth quarter of 2025.

 “East Hampton has always been incredibly special to me and holds so many cherished memories. Its natural beauty, relaxed elegance, and strong sense of heritage have been a source of inspiration, for as long as I can remember,” said Aerin Lauder, founder and creative director of Aerin.

 This season, Aerin moved back to its original East Hampton location at 7 Newtown Lane, after operating on Main Street between the East Hampton Library and the 1770 House Restaurant and Inn, and originally being located at 7 Newtown Lane. The shop carries the Aerin home decor, fashion, beauty, and heirloom pieces, and a curated mix from artisanal brands including Emporio Sirenuse, Agua by Agua Bendita, Lizzie Fortunato, Paola Marassi, and Timeless Pearly.

 “Opening a store in the town of East Hampton always felt like a natural extension for the brand, and I am proud to share that Aerin is officially returning to its iconic location at 7 Newtown Lane,” said Lauder. 

 The store, created with interior designer Tom Scheerer, draws inspiration from East Hampton’s relaxed coastal style, and is designed with custom farm tables, rattan seating, raffia wall coverings, painted floors, and floral accents. More designers will be introduced later this summer, including Deepa Gurnani, Folkloore, Micky Paris, and Sylvia Toledano. There are also Aerin boutiques in Southampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach.

 The Aerin shop in East Hampton.

 “We’re very excited to be back in the Hamptons this summer,” said Sam Edelman, founder and creative director of Sam Edelman. The Sam Edelman store, at 70 Main Street in the heart of Southampton, is scheduled to open June 19 and will offer “a curated expression of the Sam Edelman lifestyle,” including women’s ready-to-wear, footwear, handbags, fragrance, and small leather goods.

 Edelman said the store “reflects the effortless ease of summer dressing” and offers the brand’s “signature blend of timeless style, comfort, and modern elegance…Since the pandemic, we’ve concentrated on expanding our international retail business and now have more than 150 retail outlets around the world. Now it’s time to come back and accelerate our growth here in the U.S. Southampton is first on a list that includes 15 locations across the country, and we’re excited to get started,” he said. Back in 2011, Edelman operated a pop-up in East Hampton.

 Chanel has been in the Hamptons for years, but its “Chanel Hamptons Ephemeral” boutique on Newtown Lane in East Hampton is a new experience. It displays creative director Matthieu Blazy’s first Chanel Coco Beach collection, has discreet fitting rooms for privacy, and according to Chanel, has been “reimagined as a Parisian-inspired summer retreat.” The two-level, 1,995-square-foot space feels intimate and offers ready-to-wear, accessories, leather goods, shoes, watches and fine jewelry.

 Lifestyle brand Hill House Home launched mid-May at 127 Main Street in Sag Harbor, by founder Nell Diamond, who owns a home in Amagansett. The shop carries fashion and home collections.

 Marina St Barth opened a 1,400-square-foot boutique at 54 Jobs Lane, replacing the former location at 46 Jobs Lane. The shop offers silk and linen dresses, cover-ups, accessories, fragrance and body oil, among other products.

 “Our new location sits right in the heart of Jobs Lane, it’s impossible to miss,” said owner Marina Cocher Bergés. “One of the most special elements of the space is the garden, which we’ll use for intimate events and experiences for our VIP clients throughout the season. We’ve beautifully merchandised the store with designers from around the world alongside our own label. The summer 2026 collections are especially exciting, and we’ve made styling and pairing pieces easier and more inspiring for clients. We’ve also created a fully immersive Marina St Barth experience with our own signature scent and curated playlist, available on Spotify under Marina St Barth. We want every visit to feel joyful, memorable, and emotional.” 

 She said March marked the brand’s 20th anniversary in fashion and that throughout this year, it’s celebrating with activations, gifts, and events.

 Nili Lotan has a Southampton store, at 30 Main Street, opening soon. The space was designed in collaboration with architecture firm Marmol Radziner. It was conceived to feel less like a traditional luxury boutique and more like “an inviting, lived-in environment shaped by the rhythms of Southampton life” where those coming from the beach wearing flip-flops are as welcome as those dressed for an evening cocktail.

 The interior was inspired by the warmth and serenity of Marcel Breuer’s modernism with natural wood, canvas, stainless steel, and open light-filled space. A statement from the brand indicated that the intention with the store was to create a luxury environment that feels “approachable, relaxed, and rooted in community.”

 The shop has a mix of vintage furnishings and custom Rudolph Schindler-inspired pieces alongside rotating art and photography. The opening is timed to a public screening of “Rolling Stones: Stones in the Max” on June 20, sponsored by Nili Lotan in partnership with Southampton Playhouse.

 Fashion brand Toccin is scheduled to open Thursday at 44 Main Street in Southampton. The  1,400-square-foot shop along with Toccin’s summer collection will feature products from collaborations with Canfora Capri sandals, which Jackie Kennedy Onassis wore, and Stephanie Gottlieb jewelry as well as home and lifestyle items like tabletop, books and candles, and Sag Harbor Florist’s signature pre-made bouquets.

 “The Hamptons has long been home for our family, so opening our first store in Southampton feels incredibly personal,” said Michael Toccin, cofounder of Toccin, along with his wife Alex. “From the beginning, Toccin has been about helping women build a wardrobe that fits seamlessly into every part of their lives. This store gives us the opportunity to bring that philosophy to life in a much more meaningful way — welcoming clients into a space that feels like an extension of our own home, sharing the lifestyle that inspires the brand, and creating a place where women can discover, style, and experience Toccin the way it was always intended.”

 The Toccin style.

 Madewell opened last month at 102 Main Street in Sag Harbor with a new format that “reinterprets the brand’s design ethos through the lens of a modern artist’s studio, as a nod to the village’s rich creative heritage and coastal allure,” the company stated.

 “We were inspired by the practice and studios of working artists on the East End of Long Island and wanted to create a space that feels thoughtful and connected to the Sag Harbor community,” said Steven Cateron, creative director and head of design for Madewell. “It’s a special place to explore our signature denim along with summer essentials made especially for this store.” 

 The 2,400-square-foot space has a clean, gallery-like interior with painted wood floors and raw white oak detailing, creating a light, airy backdrop for the merchandise. “The essence of the Sag Harbor community is woven throughout the space, from drop-cloth curtains created by a local artist to a curated mix of vintage and modern furnishings that lend the store a collected, lived-in feel,” the company indicated. On display is Madewell’s women’s collection, with an emphasis on denim alongside summer-ready essentials such as lightweight dresses, relaxed shirting, and easy separates.

 Many of the seasonal shops returning to the Hamptons are adding some different wrinkles to their presentations. For example, Mytheresa, the Munich-based luxury website operated by LuxExperience, is returning to the Hamptons but with a revised format, details of which have yet to be revealed. 

 Cynthia Rowley

 Also returning to the Hamptons are the Cynthia Rowley Montauk beach and Sag Harbor store locations with some new twists. There’s still Rowley’s flirty ready-to-wear alongside printed T-shirts, cargos, cashmere sweaters, rugby shirts, wetsuits, swimwear, and surfboards, and the “Do Not Feed Alligators” trendy coffee and matcha shop known for discouraging laptops and encouraging in-person conversation. Rowley is also partnering with Book Hampton and bringing a selection of bestsellers, and will host several pop-ups this summer including Birdies NYC, bringing a taste of West Village froyo to the beach. Other events include comedy shows, live music, book signings and the annual surf camp returning at the end of July. Rowley’s shops are at 696 Montauk Highway in Montauk and 150 Main Street in Sag Harbor.

 La Prairie is returning to Gurney’s Montauk Resort & Seawater Spa starting June 15. Two of Gurney’s premier spa rooms will be transformed into La Prairie Treatment Suites, offering limited-edition facials and, for the first time at the property, indulgent body rituals and massage treatments will be offered.

 Massage treatment at La Prairie

 Other retail openings include:

 Kith Women, in partnership with Vivrelle, a luxury membership club for designer handbags, jewelry and diamonds, opened a pop-up at 2397 Montauk Highway in Bridgehampton, marking Kith Women’s first retail presence in the Hamptons, and the first collaboration between the two brands. The 1,400-square-foot space features women’s, activewear, handbags and a jewelry showroom as well as an outdoor patio café.

Lauracea, the Italian luxury goods brand, opened at 47B Jobs Lane in Southampton.

Coniglio Palm Beach opened at 23 Newtown Lane in East Hampton with its resort wear collection including wrap dresses, pants, and pareos.

Rag & Bone launched at 95 Main Street in Sag Harbor.

Dick’s Sporting Goods launched for the first time in the Hamptons, with a pop-up at 34 Park Place in East Hampton showcasing its private brands Walter Hagen, Maxfli, Calia and DSG.

 Madewell in Sag Harbor.

 On the food and beverage side, Citarella, the family-run gourmet market, opened in late April at 141 Montauk Highway in Westhampton Beach. “This location marks our fourth on the East End and eighth overall, joining our markets in East Hampton, Bridgehampton, and Southampton,” a spokesman for Citarella said. “Citarella’s trademark fresh seafood includes local favorites such as Montauk tilefish and branzino imported from Tuscany. Citarella is also known for its artisanal butchers, who source and hand-cut prime beef, dry-aged in-house for 21 days to develop remarkable richness, flavor, and tenderness. Other favorites include small-batch, chef-prepared foods, freshly baked desserts, farm-fresh local and organic produce, and a thoughtfully curated selection of specialty imports and seasonal offerings.”

 East Hampton’s popular Fresno restaurant, known for its high-quality American cuisine, launched a sister restaurant in Sag Harbor, called Miracle, at 29 Main Street. It was designed by owner Michael Nolan’s partner Helen Gifford of HelenBilt, and is led by Fresno chef Jesus Gonzalez.

 Hampton Coffee opened its eighth location in the region, this time an espresso bar and café at the former Beth’s Café in the village of Quogue. Hampton Coffee features a full-service, sit-down breakfast and lunch restaurant, and offers a classic menu including burgers, lobster, Mexican, beer, wine and other drinks.

 One of the most anticipated openings, or more accurately, reopenings, is the Fairway Restaurant, a landmark destination for decades located at 3556 Montauk Highway right by the Poxabogue Golf Center in Sagaponack. Fairway is undergoing an extensive renovation and is expected to open soon. It’s known for its friendly, casual atmosphere, breakfasts and brunches, fair prices in the $20 to $30 range (particularly compared to chicer Hamptons restaurants) and people on line just out the door on weekends. The Fairway is operated by Michael Carolan, who managed the restaurant under its longtime owner, Dan Murray, who died in December 2024, and who had a knack for greeting guests at the door and making them feel like they were friends.

 Marina St Barth

 Made with Google AI

 Newsletters

Sign up for WWD news straight to your inbox every day

 Sign up

 Homeland Security Gets New Tool to Track China’s Forced Labor Risks 

 Sustainability

 By 

 Jasmin Malik Chua 

 First Look: Jennifer Meyer Reopens Pacific Palisades Flagship as Neighborhood Rebuilds 

 Retail

 By 

 Ryma Chikhoune 

 Elyse Walker on Customer Retention, Relationships and Rebuilding After the Pacific Palisades Fire 

 Retail

 By 

 Kathy Lee 

 Ferran Torres Talks World Cup and That Hat 

 Character Study: Classic Men’s Looks with Modern Updates 

 Thom Browne and Teyana Taylor: Designer and Muse 

 CEO Talks: How Gucci Westman and David Neville Are Building a Luxury Beauty Brand for the Ages 

 Icebreakers with François Arnaud 

 Getting Ready for Marc Jacobs 2026 with Nicky Hilton 

 'Feud: Capote Vs. The Swans' Stars Talk Costumes and Society 

 Getting Ready with Kerry Washington & Michael Kors 

 Head to Toe: How to Style Outerwear for Everywhere 

 A Tour of the New Hermès Madison Avenue Flagship 

 Adidas Terminates Yeezy Partnership With Ye With Immediate Effect 

 Louis Vuitton Launches New Exhibition in NYC 

 Willy Chavarria Takes Us Backstage of His Energetic SS23 Collection Minutes Before Showtime 

 Head To Toe: Transitioning Your Wardrobe 

 A closer look at LaQuan Smith's new collection and designing for Beyonce 

 WWD Report Card: Beyoncé’s Fashion ‘Renaissance’ 

 Men’s Spring 2023 Trend: Skin Show 

 ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race’ Stars Kim Chi and Trixie Mattel Launch Beauty Collaboration 

 Zoey Deutch Shares Her Red Carpet Favorites and What it's Like Backstage at the Met Gala 

 A Look at Serena Williams’ Best On-Court Tennis Outfits Over the Years 

 Megan Fox’s Best Fashion Moments Over the Years 

 WWD Report Card: Selena Gomez’s Fashion Evolution 

 The Biggest Fashion Collaborations of 2022 — So Far 

 5 Things To Know About The Louis Vuitton And Nike Air Force 1 Sneaker Collection 

 LAUNCH PAD: First Look at the New J. Crew 

 WWD Report Card: Brad Pitt vs Ryan Gosling 

 Report Card: Rating the Looks from Paris Couture Week 

 First Impressions: Paris Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 5 | Kenzo, Hermès, Thom Browne 

 First Impressions: Paris Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 4 | Junya Watanabe, Dior, Officine Generale 

 First Impressions: Paris Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 3 | Issey Miyake, Amiri 

 First Impressions: Paris Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 2 | Lemaire, Givenchy, Reese Cooper 

 First Impressions: Paris Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 1 | John Elliott, EgonLab 

 First Impressions: Milan Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 2 | Versace, Fendi, Armani, MSGM 

 First Impressions: Milan Men's Spring 2023 | Day 1 

 First Impressions: Milan Men’s Spring 2023 | Day 3 | Etro, Prada, JW Anderson 

 Hot Summer Bags 

 WWD + Beauty Inc. at Cosmoprof 2022 

 On the Red Carpet at the 2022 Met Gala: All the Looks 

 'And Just Like That' Costume Designers Talk Process for New HBO Show 

 Netflix's 'Halston' Costume Designer Talks Working with Ewan McGregor 

 Video: J Balvin on the Deeper Meaning of the J Balvin x Air Jordan 1 Sneaker 

 Video: How Princess Diana’s Fashion Choices Hinted at What Was Happening Behind Palace Doors 

 Video: Do These Outrageous Celebrity Fashion Looks Hold Up? 

 Video: Sarah Cooper — Writer, Comedian, Trump Impersonator, and More 

 Video: Bob the Drag Queen Grades Legendary Fashion Looks 

 Video: Supreme Court Style: Inside the Legacy of Ruth Bader Ginsburg's Collars 

 Video: The Origins of French Girl Style à la Chanel 

 Video: WWD Presents 'Creating Queer' 

 Video: Model Shaun Ross Talks Diversity in the Fashion Industry 

 Video: Fashion for All CEO Hannah Stoudemire On Her #BreakingtheSilence Campaign⁣ 

 These Inclusive Face Masks Provide Functional PPE to All Frontline Workers 

 Most Popular 

 Apple Martin Makes Her Runway Debut at Chloé, Joining Fashion’s Famous Second Generation 

 Timberland Just Released New Día de Muertos Boots for Men and Women… 

 Kate Moss Brings Her Iconic Festival Footwear to the Present Day for… 

 Sarah Jessica Parker, Stevie Nicks, Nicole Ari Parker and More Attend… 

 Michael Jordan's Limited-edition 'Black Pack' Air Jordans Get an… 

 WWD

Get all the top news stories and alerts straight to your inbox.

 Enter your Email

 Sign Up 

 Sign Up

 By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy.
 We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

WWD and Women's Wear Daily are part of PMX Global, LLC, a subsidiary of Penske Media Corporation. © 2026 Fairchild Publishing, LLC. All rights reserved.

 Powered by WordPress.com VIP

 WWD

 Close the menu

 Account

 Welcome

 Manage Account

 Log Out

 Log In 

 Sign Up

 Fashion

 Expand fashion menu

 Fashion Trends

 Fashion Features

 Fashion Scoops

 Designer & Luxury

 Denim

 Ready-To-Wear

 Accessories

 Jewelry

 Handbags

 Business

 Expand business menu

 Earnings & Insights

 Financial

 Government & Trade

 Legal

 Mergers & Acquisitions

 Marketing & Promotion

 Human Resources

 Business Features

 Technology

 Real Estate

 Markets

 Media

 Retail

 Beauty

 Expand beauty menu

 Beauty Features

 Skin Care

 Fragrance

 Hair

 Products

 Body Care

 Wellness

 Men's

 Expand mens menu

 Mens Accessories

 Mens Clothing Furnishings

 Mens Designer Luxury

 Mens Lifestyle

 Mens Retail Business

 Mens Sportswear

 Mens Fashion

 Runway

 Expand runway menu

 Spring Ready-to-Wear 2026

 Fall Couture 2025

 Men's Spring 2026

 Resort 2026

 Spring Bridal 2026

 Footwear News

 Expand footwear-news menu

 Shoe Industry News

 Shoe Features

 Shoe Trends

 Sneaker News

 Sourcing Journal

 Expand sourcing-journal menu

 Denim

 Industry News

 Lifestyle Monitor

 Logistics

 Reports

 SJ Studio

 Sustainability

 Trade

 Videos

 Webinars

 Sustainability

 Expand sustainability menu

 Business

 Environment

 Social Impact

 Materials

 Innovation

 Home/Design

 Expand home-design menu

 Interior Design

 Furniture

 Lighting

 Architecture

 Materials

 Home Decor

 WWD Weekend

 Expand wwd-weekend menu

 Special Series

 Expand special-series menu

 Awards Shows

 WWD Celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month

 Leading Voices in Fashion and Beauty

 Video

 Podcast

 Studio

 RetailRx Community

 Events

 Expand events menu

 Fairchild Live

 Eye

 Expand eye menu

 Parties

 People

 Lifestyle

 Celebrity Real Estate

 Shop

 Expand shop menu

 Beauty

 Fashion

 Home

 Shoes

ad
