URL: https://behindthehedges.com/final-figure-amagansett-restaurant-sells-4-5m
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Final Figure: Amagansett Restaurant Yields $4.5M

 Commercial Real Estate

Final Figure: Amagansett Restaurant Yields $4.5M

 By Taylor K. Vecsey

… Comments

 Posted on March 22, 2023 

The Amagansett building that most recently was home to Main Street Tavern went on the market in October 2022 for just under $5 million. 
Courtesy of Saunders & Associates

An Amagansett restaurant building found a buyer back in January and now we know for how much — 60% more than the sale nearly three years ago.

The former Main Street Tavern sold for $4.45 million on January 17. Behind The Hedges reported the sale at the time, though the exact amount was not immediately disclosed. Suffolk County deed transfers released earlier this month revealed the final figure.

The commercial building at 177 Main Street, once also known as Indian Wells Tavern, went on the market in October 2022 for $4.995 million. Lee Minetree of Saunders & Associates listed the property and also represented the buyers, he told Hedges in January.

A limited liability company called ROP Amagansett, which Minetree had said was a group of investors, purchased the property and would be leasing it out.

The sellers were listed officially as 177 Amagansett Main Street LLC, an entity tied to the Highway Group, which bought it in May of 2020 from Udell M. Cullum of East Hampton for $2.825 million. As pointed out by the Instagram account @build.in.kind_easthampton recently, that’s a $1.6 million flip in just two years and eight months, a 60% increase following a renovation.

The Highway Group, part of a New York City-based management company for high-end restaurants in Manhattan, also owns Highway Restaurant & Bar and Autostrada Catering & Retail, the former Breadzilla sandwich shop and bakery which has not reopened yet, both in Wainscott.

Meanwhile, ROP Amagansett appears to have ties to River Oak Partners, an El Paso, Texas-based company that owns shopping centers.

The bar area inside 177 Main Street in AmagansettCourtesy of Saunders & Associates

The now turn-key, 2,900-square-foot space seats 100 and features a large courtyard area out back. Completely renovated in 2020, the building has a new roof, as well as new electrical, mechanical and exhaust systems. The kitchen has also recently been redone.

The 0.11-acre property abuts a large municipal parking lot behind Main Street.

The property is zoned highway business for a restaurant, deli/cafe and retail use.

Email tvecsey@danspapers.com with further comments, questions, or tips. Follow Behind The Hedges on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook. See what else is happening in the commercial real estate market. Click here.

About the Author

All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines. Schneps Media does not endorse the views shared by readers in our comment sections.

Related Articles

 A B&B in the Amagansett Lanes Asking $7.5 Million
 A Darling Vintage Beach Cottage in the Dunes
 Cute Amagansett Dunes Project is Now $500K Cheaper
 A Perfect Summer Rental Cottage for Investors

Reach thousands of Hamptons homebuyers every weekday

Find out more

Insights and exclusive content delivered direct to you

Subscribe

Read the latest issue of Behind The Hedges

Latest Posts

 East End Real Estate Pros Learn How Powerful a OneKey®MLS Subscription Can Be
 Watchcase Factory Penthouse Sells for Record $7.3M in Sag Harbor
 East Hampton Town Closes $7.25M Purchase of Pathfinder Camp Property
 East Hampton Home Blends Yankee Barn Architecture With Modern Luxury
 Simple ways to breathe new life into a foyer

Design

 Midcentury Glass House in East Hampton Lists for $1.55M
 20th Annual Antiques & Design Show Benefit Set for East Hampton
 Michael Derrig Has Built a Successful Hamptons Design Firm by Seeing What Others Miss
 Inside Lulu and Georgia’s Summer Takeover at The Reform Club

Real Estate

 Watchcase Factory Penthouse Sells for Record $7.3M in Sag Harbor
 East Hampton Town Closes $7.25M Purchase of Pathfinder Camp Property
 East Hampton Home Blends Yankee Barn Architecture With Modern Luxury
 DeCaro Auctions to Launch Fractional Ownership Model for Upscale Vacation Properties
 Andrew Cuomo Scores a Deal on Hamptons Waterfront Estate

House of the Day

 East Hampton Home Blends Yankee Barn Architecture With Modern Luxury
 Rare East Hampton Retreat Has Two Bodies of Water
 Sagaponack Charm, Reimagined in a New Estate
 Rare Four-Acre Waterfront Estate Hits Quogue Market
 Related Ross Introduces a ‘Vertical Country Club’ at Edgeworth

More from our Sister Sites

Long Island Press

Long Island Association enters its second century

amNY

Fare evasion: Hochul, MTA leaders say stations testing modern fare gate models see 35% drop in the costly crime

Dan’s Papers

Dan Rattiner Talks with Jeff Einhorn, Cofounder of The Bridge Golf Course & Classic Car Exhibition
