URL: https://easthamptonstar.com/villages/2021527/hampton-chutney-co-squeezed-out-square
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Hampton Chutney Co. Squeezed Out of Square | The East Hampton Star

 Skip to main content

 Share on Facebook

 Share on Twitter

 Share through email

 Published 5 years ago

 Last updated 5 years ago

Hampton Chutney, bustling pre-pandemic. "We believe we have brought crowds to the square, and the other tenants profit from that," said Isabel MacGurn, an owner of the eatery.

Durell Godfrey

By
 Jamie Bufalino

May 27, 2021 

Facing a steep rent increase, the Hampton Chutney Co. eatery will soon be leaving the Amagansett Square space it has occupied for more than 20 years, Isabel MacGurn, an owner, said on Monday.

The lease for the property had been up in October 2020, but, because of the pandemic, Randy Lerner, the owner of the complex, agreed to postpone a rent hike for a year, Ms. MacGurn said. Earlier this spring, Fred Friedler, the property manager, informed her of the new rent, and "it was almost triple what we're paying now," she said. "We were shocked, horrified. I have a New York City restaurant, and these are New York City level rents they're charging."

Ms. MacGurn and her husband, Gary, started selling chutneys to South Fork gourmet shops in 1995, and two years later, they opened their first dosa shop in the space that is now home to La Fondita. They moved to Amagansett Square before Mr. Lerner owned it, when it was filled with chains such as the Izod and Van Heusen clothing stores. "Basically nothing was happening in the square," she recalled. "I do think Randy Lerner made a lot of improvements, and we've been very happy being here, but we also believe we have brought crowds to the square, and the other tenants profit from that."

"When Randy came here, he made it clear that he cared about the community, and the mom-and-pop businesses, and he wanted unique places, not chain stores," said Ms. MacGurn, who sought to discuss the rent hike directly with Mr. Lerner. "Our kids went to the Amagansett School, and we've always had a nice relationship, so I reached out to him, but I didn't get a response unfortunately. They already have other plans for the space, so I don't think that even if we paid what they're asking they would have us," Ms. MacGurn said.

"We have had several attractive tenant-opportunities in the works that we feel would enhance our community's diversified group of shops at the square," Mr. Friedler said in an email. "Our priority currently is to take time to clean up and upgrade the building that Hampton Chutney occupied, as it is the one structure that has fallen behind literally from foundation to roof-ridge."

Ms. MacGurn said that no one had ever discussed the need for renovations with her. "The foundation is fine, the windows were all replaced last fall, and the roof was replaced with all the other buildings a few years ago," she said. "Given the amount they are asking us to pay, I think they didn't imagine that we would ever say yes because it's a ridiculous amount of money. The fact that they don't want us here has given us a such a bad feeling, that we don't want to be here anymore."

She is now hoping to find a new place nearby, and has a prospect in mind. "We're trying to stay in Amagansett but it will likely be East Hampton," she said. "We're spreading the word about leaving mostly because we're hoping that somebody might say, 'Hey, I have an availability.' "

Ms. McGurn has recently started telling customers about the restaurant's departure, and the reaction has been heartwarming. "This community has really rallied around us," she said. "We keep encountering people who love Hampton Chutney so much and are willing to do whatever they can to help us in any way they can."

Isabel McGurn     Jamie Bufalino

Villages

Largest Clam Contest Postponed a Week

The East Hampton Town Trustees’ Largest Clam Contest will now be held on Saturday, Oct. 10, from noon to 3 p.m. Would-be contestants can begin harvesting on Oct. 3.
Oct 1, 2026

Calls to Cancel HIFF Screening of ‘NAZA’

The Jewish Center of the Hamptons is calling on the Hamptons International Film Festival to cancel the screening of a documentary by Israeli filmmakers that the festival’s guide describes as detailing “the systems behind Israel’s calculated mass killing of Palestinian civilians in Gaza.” 
Oct 1, 2026

Montaukett Indian Museum Has a New Leader

The Montauk Historical Society has appointed David Bunn Martine, an artist who ran the Shinnecock Museum for 20 years, as director of its Montaukett Indian Museum, which is on the grounds of Second House.
Oct 1, 2026

Your support for The East Hampton Star helps us deliver the news, arts, and community information you need. Whether you are an online subscriber, get the paper in the mail, delivered to your door in Manhattan, or are just passing through, every reader counts. We value you for being part of The Star family.

Your subscription to The Star does more than get you great arts, news, sports, and outdoors stories. It makes everything we do possible.

Subscribe to The Star

STAR HATS

Daily Grind

more

Latest Stories

Bonac Football Shuts Out Hills West

NextEra Closes Battery Storage Facilities

Second Guilty Plea in Building Department Bribery Case

Pastor Addresses Concerns About Housing Idea

Daily Grind

more

Keep The Star Shining!

Your Tax-Deductible Support 
When it Matters Most

Copyright © 1996-2026 The East Hampton Star. All rights reserved. 

 Obituaries

 Villages

 Police & Courts

 Government

 Business

 Opinion

 Columnists

 Editorials

 Guestwords

 Food

 Sports

 Letters

 Arts

 Books

 Habitat

 Film

 Galleries

 Museums

 Music

 Theater

 Nightlife

 Living

 Travel

 Education

 Classifieds

 EAST

 Living

 Travel

 Fishing

 Food

 Habitat

 Health

 Nature

 Outdoors

 Sports

 East Magazine

 Garden & Home

 Tides

 More

 About

 Advertise

 Classifieds

 Forms

 Star Store

 Subscribe

 Alerts

 Change Password

 Make a Donation

 Summer Academy

 Top Stories by Email
