URL: https://www.easthamptonstar.com/food/2026416/news-foodies-041626
Accessed: 2026-10-07

News for Foodies 04.16.26 | The East Hampton Star

 Skip to main content

 Share on Facebook

 Share on Twitter

 Share through email

 Published 5 months ago

 Last updated 5 months ago

Kyle Sanderson, the founder of Amagansett Coffee Co., takes a turn as the shop’s barista.

Mark Segal

By
 Mark Segal

April 16, 2026 

Amagansett Coffee Co.

Kyle Sanderson, the founder of Grindstone Coffee and Donuts in Sag Harbor and East Hampton, has announced a new venture. Amagansett Coffee Co. has opened at 26 Montauk Highway in that hamlet, the home of Charlie and Sons Landscapes.

“The idea came together pretty quickly,” said Sanderson, who was introduced to Nikki and Matias Whitmore in October. “They were thinking about adding coffee to their space, and once I saw the nursery and the greenhouse, I felt it was something we had to do.”

Sanderson said the new project differs from his other shops. “The idea is more focused — it’s a true coffee-first concept. The goal is to execute everything at a high level, rather than offer a lot of variation,” though he added that they plan to work with local cottage bakers and private chefs to offer products not available elsewhere.

Because there are a lot of different areas to sit, including the greenhouse, outdoor spaces, and quiet corners, he sees the site as one where people can spend time. He also plans to build out a space behind the barn for children.

“The goal is for it to become more of a community space over time, somewhere people can spend the morning or the day.”

Clam Bar to Reopen

The Clam Bar at Napeague will reopen Friday, serving lunch and dinner seven days a week starting at 11:30, weather permitting. Among the menu offerings are tuna poke nachos, fried clam strips, shrimp burgers, lobster B.L.T.s, sushi dogs, fried tuna bits, and salad lobster rolls.

The venue’s Shuck Truck will be available for private events.

News for Foodies 09.10.26
Almond restaurant announces perks of its Dinner and Provisions Club as well as fall specials, and the North Fork Foodie Tour will feature farms and vineyards spread across 30 miles.

Sep 10, 2026

Tomato Tasters Rate 2026 Crop
The annual Great Tomato Taste-Off at Quail Hill Farm brought some 100 tasters to the property to taste and rate 44 varieties at their seasonal peak.

Sep 3, 2026

News for Foodies 09.03.26
Wolffer Estate Vineyard releases its first Summer in the Bottle Rosé Zero, a rosé with zero-percent alcohol, Jason Weiner is named featured chef at Outstanding in the Field, and there’s a new chef at Elaia Estiatorio.

Sep 3, 2026

Florence Fabricant Trades Places
For the first time in 15 years, Florence Fabricant, the prominent food and wine writer, will be the guest, not the host, of Guild Hall's Stirring the Pot series of culinary conversations.

Aug 27, 2026

More 

Your support for The East Hampton Star helps us deliver the news, arts, and community information you need. Whether you are an online subscriber, get the paper in the mail, delivered to your door in Manhattan, or are just passing through, every reader counts. We value you for being part of The Star family.

Your subscription to The Star does more than get you great arts, news, sports, and outdoors stories. It makes everything we do possible.

Subscribe to The Star

STAR HATS

Daily Grind

more

Latest Stories

Bonac Football Shuts Out Hills West

NextEra Closes Battery Storage Facilities

Second Guilty Plea in Building Department Bribery Case

Pastor Addresses Concerns About Housing Idea

Daily Grind

more

Keep The Star Shining!

Your Tax-Deductible Support 
When it Matters Most

Copyright © 1996-2026 The East Hampton Star. All rights reserved. 

 Obituaries

 Villages

 Police & Courts

 Government

 Business

 Opinion

 Columnists

 Editorials

 Guestwords

 Food

 Sports

 Letters

 Arts

 Books

 Habitat

 Film

 Galleries

 Museums

 Music

 Theater

 Nightlife

 Living

 Travel

 Education

 Classifieds

 EAST

 Living

 Travel

 Fishing

 Food

 Habitat

 Health

 Nature

 Outdoors

 Sports

 East Magazine

 Garden & Home

 Tides

 More

 About

 Advertise

 Classifieds

 Forms

 Star Store

 Subscribe

 Alerts

 Change Password

 Make a Donation

 Summer Academy

 Top Stories by Email
