URL: https://greaterlongisland.com/coche-comedor-in-amagansett-to-close-after-six-years/
Accessed: 2026-10-07

Coche Comedor in Amagansett to close after six years

Greater East End is supported by

The Watershed Kitchen & Inn

Greater East End coverage is funded in part by The Watershed Kitchen & Inn, a North Fork destination in South Jamesport featuring elevated comfort food, craft cocktails and boutique accommodations.

Explore The Watershed →

Coche Comedor, the lively Mexican-inspired restaurant in Amagansett, is shutting its doors for good at the end of the month.

In a message posted to Instagram, the owners said the restaurant’s final day will be Saturday, Sept. 27. 

“It’s with tremendous regret that we announce the closure of Coche Comedor,” the post read. “Over the past six years, we have poured our heart and soul into this restaurant, to make it a part of the community. Unfortunately, as many of you know, running a seasonal business, especially a restaurant in the Hamptons, has grown increasingly difficult.”

The team thanked patrons and staff for their support, calling themselves “incredibly proud of all that we have accomplished together at Coche.”

Coche Comedor opened in 2019 and quickly became a Hamptons favorite for its wood-fired tacos, fresh ceviches, and late-night cocktails.

While Coche is closing, the restaurant group told Greater Long Island that its other establishments remain unchanged — including La Fondita and Rowdy Hall in Amagansett, Nick & Toni’s in East Hampton, and Townline BBQ in Sagaponack.

“We deeply appreciate the support you have shown us throughout these years,” the Instagram post continued. “We hope you will continue to support our other restaurants.”

View this post on Instagram

A post shared by Coche Comedor (@coche_comedor)

Top: Tacos from Coche Comedor. (Credit: Facebook)

Your Long Island news, delivered.

Subscribe to the GLI Newsletter — its free

Subscribe

Subscribe

Great Eats

Sep 23, 2026
 The Eastern Squeeze brings fresh flavors, family and plenty of personality to Wading River

Aug 21, 2026
 Shell yeah! Turtle Crawl returns to Riverhead to help sea turtles

Aug 05, 2026
 Skinnygirl founder Bethenny Frankel opening East Quogue pop-up café

Jul 28, 2026
 The new Bread & Butter serves up a love letter to the North Fork

GLI News Delivered 

Sit back. We’ll keep you posted.

Cops & Courts
Police seek man who offered $300 to girl, 14, walking home from Smithtown East High School
Bay Shore man pleads guilty in fatal Main Street hit-and-run
Fatal park shooting was targeted and caught on video, Suffolk Police say
North Bellport man, 43, shot and killed at Robert Rowley Park
Ronkonkoma mom crashes through tennis court, charged under Leandra’s Law

Featured Events 

Tap here to see what’s happening

Recommended

 The story behind Enology Wine Bar in St. James goes well beyond wine

Sep 28, 2026

 Meet the team behind The K9 Shop’s growth on Long Island and beyond

Sep 24, 2026

 Long Island Restaurant Week returns for fall 2026, celebrating 20 years

Sep 22, 2026

 For this Lindenhurst couple, Woof Gang West Islip is a labor of puppy love

Sep 17, 2026

 Our Local Supporters

Besito Mexican Restaurants
The Core Station Yards
Greater Bay Shore Chamber of Commerce
New Village at Patchogue
The Shed Restaurants
Staller Center for the Arts
ConnectOneBank
Greater Long Island Dental
Drew Patrick Spa
LM & Sons Moving and Storage
Toresco & Simonelli
Toast Coffee + Kitchen
Long Island Dental Wellness
The Argyle Theatre at Babylon Village
Hunter Business School
Babylon Village Chamber of Commerce
Uncle Giuseppe's Marketplace
GallettAir Inc.
Shoregate
Strategic Planning Associates
Fedora Lounge Salon

Cops & Courts
Police seek man who offered $300 to girl, 14, walking home from Smithtown East High School
Bay Shore man pleads guilty in fatal Main Street hit-and-run
Fatal park shooting was targeted and caught on video, Suffolk Police say
North Bellport man, 43, shot and killed at Robert Rowley Park
Ronkonkoma mom crashes through tennis court, charged under Leandra’s Law
