URL: https://patch.com/new-york/easthampton/marys-marvelous-sold-organic-krush-set-open-shop
Accessed: 2026-10-07
----
Mary's Marvelous Sold, Organic Krush Set To Open Shop | East Hampton, NY Patch
Skip to main content
​​
East Hampton, NYSubscribeNews FeedEventsLocal BusinessesAdvertise
​​
Post
Advertise
Nearby
Local News
Events
Local Businesses
Classifieds
Photos
See all communities
Advertise
Promote on Patch
Nearby Communities
Montauk, NY
Southampton, NY
North Fork, NY
New London, CT
Groton, CT
Waterford, CT
Stonington-Mystic, CT
The Lymes, CT
Westerly, RI
Ledyard, CT
State Edition
New York
National Edition
Top National News
See All Communities
Real Estate
Mary's Marvelous Sold, Organic Krush Set To Open Shop
Organic Krush will soon be moving to Main Street in Amagansett, to the spot where Mary's Marvelous stood for years.
Lisa Finn, Patch Staff
Posted Thu, Jun 15, 2017 at 12:20 pm ET
AMAGANSETT, NY — The site of Mary's Marvelous, a favorite gourmet go-to spot for breakfast and sandwiches in Amagansett has been sold — and the organic cafe Organic Krush will be opening at the site.
Lori Macgarva of Douglas Elliman handled the sale for the property, located at 207 Main Street in Amagansett and listed at $575,000.
While the Amagansett location of Mary's Marvelous shuttered, the East Hampton location of the shop will remain open, according to Douglas Elliman.
Find out what's happening in East Hamptonfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
"New to the market, valuable business opportunity!" the listing, for $625,000, read. "Located on Main Street with high traffic exposure and retail use. Currently, operating as one of the Hamptons premier gourmet food establishments attracting a large customer base. The one story building is 1100 sf, with additional exterior storage space. Interior space is retail and kitchen. Outdoors feature patio space for customers to enjoy. This memorable store front location can continue to operate as a food use or other retail possibilities. This sale is 'key money' for the well established business, long term lease, and existing equipment; It does not include the business name or property."
According to its website, Organic Krush is "made of three different families who have come together with one common mission: to bring healthy organic eating to our family, friends and community. We believe the health of our families is connected to the food we eat and the lifestyle we lead. Personally and professionally, we strive for balance, happiness and teamwork. You will see this approach in everything we do."
Find out what's happening in East Hamptonfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
For menus, juice selections, and cleaning info, click here.
To view the Douglas Elliman listing, click here.
This listing courtesy of Douglas Elliman.
Photo courtesy of Douglas Elliman.
Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.
Share
Join the conversation 
More from East Hampton
Politics & Government|11h
Town Seeks To Acquire 38.3 Acres At Former Sand Mine In Wainscott For Preservation, Municipal Needs
Politics & Government|2d
Operations Suspended At 2 East End Battery Storage Facilities: Romaine
Weather|Sep 27
More Than 23K Without Power Across LI After Night Of Fierce Winds, 700+ Fallen Trees: PSEG
Featured Events
Oct 10, 2026 
8th Annual Chowdah Chowdown 🍲
Promote your event
Featured Classifieds
Opinion 
701 Pages of Evidence: Will Southampton Take a Hard Look?
Promote your classified
Featured Businesses
The Hamptons Collective
Get my business found
Find out what’s happening in your
community on the Patch app
Corporate Info
About Patch
Careers
Partnerships
Advertise on Patch
Support
FAQs
Contact Patch
Community Guidelines
Posting Instructions
Terms of UsePrivacy Policy
© 2026 Patch Media. All Rights Reserved.
