URL: https://www.danspapers.com/2020/04/organic-krush-reopens-amagansett-location
Accessed: 2026-10-07
----
Organic Krush Reopens Amagansett Location – Dan’s Papers
Skip to content
 Communities
North Fork
Jamesport
Mattituck
Orient
Riverhead
Shelter Island
Southold
The Hamptons
Montauk
Quogue
Sag Harbor
Sagaponack
Southampton
Water Mill
Westhampton Beach
NYC
Palm Beach
Home Pros
Digital Editions
Dan’s Best of the Best
Contact Us
 Reader
 ⌄
 Toggle account menu
Hello, Reader!
 Account Settings
 ›
 Help
 ›
 Log Out 
 You have successfully signed out.
 Log In Register 
Things to Do
Events Calendar
View and Post Events
Books & Authors 
Concerts 
Comedy 
Fairs & Festivals 
Film 
Fitness & Outdoors 
Galleries & Museums 
Kids & Families 
LGBTQ+ 
Nonprofits & Philanthropy 
Pets & Animals 
Seasonal & Holiday 
Shopping 
Theater
Dan’s Events
Visit Dan’s Taste
Arts & Culture
Artist Profiles 
Books & Authors 
Galleries & Museums 
Performing Arts 
Music, Film & TV
Food & Drink
Recipes 
Restaurants 
Bars, Breweries & Distilleries 
Wine & Wineries
Celebrity News
Local News
Crime & Police 
Politics 
Health 
Business 
Education 
Environment 
Obituaries
Real Estate
Lifestyle
Dan Rattiner’s Stories 
Fashion & Style 
Hotels & Inns 
Kids & Family 
Nonprofits & Philanthropy 
Party & Event Photos 
Wellness
 Search for:
 Open Search
 Reader
 ⌄
 Toggle account menu
Hello, Reader!
 Account Settings
 ›
 Help
 ›
 Log Out 
 You have successfully signed out.
 Log In Register 
Amagansett
Organic Krush Reopens Amagansett Location 
 By Nicole Teitler 
… Comments
 5 minute
 04/14/2020
 Share 
 Independent/Courtesy Organic Krush
As the world turns to its health care workers to save it from a spreading pandemic, there’s never been a better time for individuals to take a look inward — at what we consume.
Personalized wellness begins with the very basics of what we eat and drink. Our bodies are similar to cars; the better we nourish ourselves the further we will go. If food is our fuel, Organic Krush is a one-stop-shop for superfood needs.
Organic Krush began in 2014 with a single location in Woodbury and has since expanded to five Long Island storefronts. After shutting its doors for the season at the end of November last year, Organic Krush reopened its restaurant in Amagansett on Thursday, April 2, with a brand-new look. The cosmetic makeover includes new graffiti, and there are also new kitchen efficiencies.
Independent/Courtesy Organic Krush
“As long as the staff felt comfortable going back to their home base, there was no issue,” co-founder Michelle Walrath said of the opening. She and co-founder Fran Paniccia have all five locations open for business right now, adhering to tight protocols.
“The reason we started Organic Krush was to support people’s health,” Walrath explained. “One of the things with viruses is that the more people who can learn about immunity and take care of their own health, the better off we all are.” That’s why Organic Krush is offering no-contact pickup and delivery options, free through DoorDash.
OK organic selection includes customizable “survival kits” that are curated to provide immune boosting foods and beverages. The Classic, priced at $150, comes with a one-pound bag of coffee, two quarts of soup, four quarts of bone broth, three green juices, three wellness shots, a six pack of gluten free baked goods, and four protein bars. Other options may also include portions of marinated grass-fed steak, grilled chicken breasts, detox kale salads, roasted vegetables, and so much more.
Each item is guaranteed fresh, with a packaged and sell-by date listed. All menu items act as natural ways to nourish the body and boost the immune system with no additives, preservatives, or chemicals.
Independent/Courtesy Organic Krush
“This isn’t just a short-term thing. More than ever, people need to understand the connection between their choices and the big impact,” said Walrath. Beyond simply supplying consumers with necessary nutrients, OK offers up tips and recipes on its Instagram account (@OrganicKrush) with a “Krush in the Kitchen” video series. The series is equal parts informative and fun, and is a means for Organic Krush to connect to its customers virtually.
While its Amagansett location is just reemerging, the managerial staff has been working at the other locations and is already familiar with the new day-to-day operations, an existing monthlong process. In early March, when news of the COVID-19 spread hit especially hard, the OK team began social distancing by banning the crossover between locations. Prior to the outbreak, staff would oftentimes work at a location that needed help, but that quickly halted.
“Everyone ate healthy and learned to rely on their team,” Walrath said. Masks, hand sanitizers, cleaning, and other precautionary steps were also implemented.
Independent/Courtesy Organic Krush
With many staff members having family and friends working on the frontlines as health care workers, there’s an Organic Krush Gives Back initiative that brings lunches to different hospitals across Long Island. It started as an altruistic way to keep staffers busy, making 50 to 75 lunches a day during a time there’d otherwise be little to do. Now, it has turned into a fundraising effort that raised over $10,000 in a single week, with an overarching goal of $50,000.
“It’s a testament to the customer base that we have,” Walrath noted. On average, a lunch costs $20. Thanks to the generous donations of others, nurses and doctors at local hospitals are eating healthy meals that keep their stomachs full and immune system in check.
Visit www.organickrush.com for more. For a customizable survival kit, email cateringOK@organickrush.com.
nicole@indyeastend.com
 Conversations
 Profile
All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines. Schneps Media does not endorse the views shared by readers in our comment sections.
Vetted Hamptons Resources
Hamptons Classified 
 Access our trusted network of local professionals and browse employment opportunities in the Hamptons. 
 Find a Home Pro
 Search Jobs
Most Recent Articles
Something to Wine About: Four Fabulous East End Fall Wines
East End Real Estate Pros Learn How Powerful a OneKey®MLS Subscription Can Be
Dan Rattiner Talks with Jeff Einhorn, Cofounder of The Bridge Golf Course & Classic Car Exhibition
OLA Launches Civic Engagement Initiative Amid East End Immigration Fears
Things to do on the East End
 More local events
8th Annual Chowdah Chowdown benefitting Springs Food Pantry 🍲
 Springs Tavern and Grill 
 Oct 10, noon
Open Hours of “The Disappearance of Landscape: Oakleyville”
 The Watermill Center 
 Tomorrow, 11 am
EXHIBITION – Dear Mazie, curated by Amber Esseiva
 The Church 
 Tomorrow, 11 am
Arborescent Exhibition – All About Trees – Six Artists
 Alex Ferrone Gallery 
 Tomorrow, noon
Taiji/Qigong with John Turnbull
 Hampton Library 
 Tomorrow, 12:30 pm
Food that Heals: Ayurvedic Talk & Tasting with Corey DeRosa of Tapovana Lunch Box
 Hampton Library 
 Tomorrow, 5 pm
The iconic mainstay of Long Island’s East End for over 60 years.
Read Our Papers
 Digital Editions of Dan’s Papers are available online. 
 Get our best stories right into your inbox.
 Subscribe
 Follow us
© Dan’s Papers 2026 Schneps Media | 
Designed by Digital Silk
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
 Post an Event
