URL: https://patch.com/new-york/riverhead/marys-marvelous-amagansett-close-new-tenant-sought
Accessed: 2026-10-07
----
Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett To Close; New Tenant Sought | East Hampton, NY Patch
Skip to main content
​​
Riverhead, NYSubscribeNews FeedEventsLocal BusinessesAdvertise
​​
Post
Advertise
Nearby
Local News
Events
Local Businesses
Classifieds
Photos
See all communities
Advertise
Promote on Patch
Nearby Communities
Westhampton-Hampton Bays, NY
Center Moriches-Eastport, NY
North Fork, NY
Shirley-Mastic, NY
Miller Place-Rocky Point, NY
Southampton, NY
Medford, NY
Port Jefferson, NY
Patchogue, NY
Three Village, NY
State Edition
New York
National Edition
Top National News
See All Communities
Real Estate
Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett To Close; New Tenant Sought 
The East Hampton location of Mary's Marvelous will remain open.
Lisa Finn, Patch Staff
Posted Thu, Dec 8, 2016 at 6:52 pm ET
AMAGANSETT, NY — A favorite gourmet go-to spot for breakfast and sandwiches is closing in Amagansett.
The Amagansett location of Mary's Marvelous will be closing; however, the East Hampton location of the shop will remain open, according to Douglas Elliman. 
And now, the Amagansett space is up for long-term lease, according to Douglas Elliman.
Find out what's happening in Riverheadfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
"New to the market, valuable business opportunity!" the listing, for $625,000, reads. "Located on Main Street with high traffic exposure and retail use. Currently, operating as one of the Hamptons premier gourmet food establishments attracting a large customer base. The one story building is 1100 sf, with additional exterior storage space. Interior space is retail and kitchen. Outdoors feature patio space for customers to enjoy. This memorable store front location can continue to operate as a food use or other retail possibilities. This sale is 'key money' for the well established business, long term lease, and existing equipment; It does not include the business name or property." 
Robert Kohr and Lori MacGarva of Douglas Elliman are representing the listing.
Find out what's happening in Riverheadfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
"Mary's Marvelous has had great success in this Amagansett Main Street location since opening there in 2002," Kohr said. "This is a real opportunity for another smart business to move in and enjoy the opportunities of this prime location." 
To view the listing, click here.
This listing courtesy of Douglas Elliman. 
Photo courtesy of Douglas Elliman.
Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.
Share
Join the conversation 
More from Riverhead
Crime & Safety|4h
Ex-DSS Examiner Accused Of Stealing More Than $78K In SNAP Benefits From Needy Families: DA
Business & Tech|9h
For Owner Of Jerry & The Mermaid, Giving Back Brings Joy: 'I Truly Want To See Other People Succeed'
Crime & Safety|3d
Woman Dies In Crash Saturday Night On Wading River Manor Road: PD
Featured Events
Oct 9, 2026 
 Candlelight Group Sound Journey in the Loft at Eastern Sun Holistic Health 
Oct 10, 2026 
Rock & Roll Car Show
Oct 11, 2026 
What a Wonderful World
Oct 18, 2026 
34th Annual Fall Festival
Promote your event
Featured Classifieds
For Sale 
Tag Sale
Opinion 
701 Pages of Evidence: Will Southampton Take a Hard Look?
Promote your classified
Featured Businesses
The Hamptons Collective
Pete's Taverna
The North Shore Injury Lawyer
CLOS, Inc.
Heart & Soul Community Counseling, Inc.
Get my business found
Find out what’s happening in your
community on the Patch app
Corporate Info
About Patch
Careers
Partnerships
Advertise on Patch
Support
FAQs
Contact Patch
Community Guidelines
Posting Instructions
Terms of UsePrivacy Policy
© 2026 Patch Media. All Rights Reserved.
