URL: https://suffolkcountyny.gov/Portals/0/formsdocs/planning/scplanningcommission/2020/Staff%20Report%20Town%20of%20East%20Hampton%20-%20Comp%20Plan%20amendment%20East%20Hampton%20Hamlet%20Reports%20Amagansett%20a.pdf
Accessed: 2026-10-07
----
                                        COUNTY OF SUFFOLK
                                             Steven Bellone
                                        SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE
                                                                              Department of
             Natalie Wright                              Economic Development and Planning Division of Planning and
             Commissioner                                                      Environment
                                          STAFF REPORT
   SECTIONS A14-14 THRU A14-25 OF THE SUFFOLK COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Applicant:            East Hampton Hamlet Reports, Amagansett, and Montauk
Municipality:         Town of East Hampton
Location:             Town of East Hampton, Suffolk County
Received:              2/24/20
File Number:           EH-20-01 & EH-20-02
Jurisdiction:          Adoption of Comprehensive Plan amendments - Hamlet Plans
                                        PROPOSAL DETAILS
OVERVIEW – As part of the Town process of adopting amendments to the Town
Comprehensive Plan. The East Hampton Town Board has forwarded two Hamlet Plans
(Amagansett and Montauk) to the Suffolk County Planning Commission.
http://ny-easthamptontown.civicplus.com/DocumentCenter/View/4219/Amgansett-Report-
November-8-2019-PDF
http://ny-easthamptontown.civicplus.com/DocumentCenter/View/4220/Montauk-Report-
January-23-2020-PDF
As with prior East Hampton Hamlet plans referred to the Suffolk County Planning Commission
the purpose of these initiatives is to better understand and address the potential changes and
challenges facing the business areas within the Town. To do that the East Hampton Town Board
retained a consulting team to prepare a Hamlet Plan for each of the Town’s 5 planning Areas
(School Districts) including Wainscott, East Hampton, Amagansett, Springs and Montauk along
with a Town-wide economic business district analysis. The preparation of these detailed studies
was recommended in the 2005 Town of East Hampton Comprehensive Plan.
As noted in the referral material to the Suffolk County Planning Commission from the Southold
Town Board the Planning Process for these hamlet plans was a collaborative process including
public charrettes, open Town Board meetings, and several public workshop and hearings on the
draft and final plans.
The Amagansett Hamlet Plan focuses on the 2 major commercial areas along Montauk
Highway; Amagansett “Center and Amagansett “East” and also provides an inventory and
Suffolk County Planning Commission                 1
analysis of the entire planning area with regard to historic and cultural resources, demographics,
natural resources, environmental challenges, zoning, land use, economy, residential and
commercial buildout and transportation and infrastructure. The Plan provides general objectives
and an illustrative master plan depicting a vision for how the Amagansett business district could
be redeveloped over the coming decades based on the input received during the multiple public
workshops.
The Montauk Hamlet Plan report focuses on the 2 major commercial areas referred to as
Montauk Downtown and Montauk Harbor but also provides an inventory and analysis on the
entire Planning Area with regard to historic and cultural resources, demographics, etc. and has a
focus on the Montauk Long Island Rail Road Station and how the Montauk Hamlet could be
redeveloped over the coming decades based on the input received during the multiple public
workshops.
It is noted in the referral materials that the master plans for these two Hamlets are not intended
to serve as a blueprint for development but illustrate how the districts can be shaped into more
attractive, cohesive, functional and vibrant places through the application of planning and design
criteria. While it is mentioned throughout the Hamlet Plans that further study and development
will be needed to implement this vision, fundamental planning, design, zoning, transportation
and infrastructure measures are offered as recommended implementation measures.
                                         STAFF ANALYSIS
The primary goal of the two Hamlet Plans is similar to earlier referrals and that is to provide East
Hampton with an inspired, achievable plan which will enhance the Hamlet’s strengths while
significantly improving the Hamlet’s aesthetics, walkability, functionality and viability for people of
all abilities. The Amagansett and Montauk Hamlet Plans also specifically mention the elimination
of existing barriers for people with disabilities as defined by the American with Disabilities Act as
a primary goal of the Hamlet Plans.
The general objectives of the Amagansett Hamlet Plan are:
   1. Preserve and enhance the existing scenic, rural and historic character of the core
      commercial district.
   2. Maintain small town charm and walkability of the Amagansett Historic business area
   3. Facilitate and enhance parking accommodations for public transportation and business
      area shoppers.
   4. Improve unsafe roadway design at the intersection of Montauk Highway, Abrahams Path
      and Old Stone Highway.
   5. Improve the cohesiveness, functionality and aesthetics of the eastern Amagansett
      business area.
   6. Improve bicycle and pedestrian connectivity.
Recommendations and implementation
Recommendations and implementation measures provided in the last section of the report
include but are not limited to:
Comprehensive Plan-
  1. Maintain the 2005 Town of East Hampton Comprehensive Plan as the touchstone for
      future development and land use decisions in Amagansett. Reaffirm the Vision, Goals
      and Recommendations of 2005 Plan as the foundation for the Amagansett Hamlet Plan.
  2. Adopt the Amagansett Hamlet Plan as an addendum to the 2005 Comprehensive Plan.
Suffolk County Planning Commission                 2
     3. Continue to implement and coordinate with Environmental Plans and Amendments to the
        2005 Comprehensive Plan. These updates provide topic specific analyses and
        recommendations on a variety of issues including water quality improvements, energy
        planning, coastal planning and resiliency, workforce housing, scenic resources, and open
        space protection.
Protect and Enhance the Natural and Historic Character-
   1. Take forceful measures to protect and enhance the natural environment particularly
       ground and surface waters. Implement innovative techniques and adopt stringent
       development regulations and best management practices with respect to environmental
       protection, growth management, sustainability and energy.
   2. Actively continue and take proactive measures to protect the environment, farmland,
       historic property, critical ground and surface water lands, open space, and scenic vistas
       through additional land preservation. Assure adequate Town staffing and resources are
       committed to land protection measures.
   3. Research and implement methods to protect and restore scenic views and historic
       properties. Preservation of farmland is essential for continuation of the agricultural
       industry but preservation of the spectacular landscape vistas is important for maintaining
       Amagansett’s history and identity. In addition to the two historic districts and 4 historic
       individual properties, more properties should be considered for historic district and
       landmark designation.
   4. Develop, implement, fund, collaborate, and educate the community regarding water
       quality improvements for Napeague Harbor watershed.
Pattern of Development,
    1. Retain the present configuration of the Central Business (CB) zoning district in
       Amagansett
    2. Retain the present configuration of the Central Business, A Residence Limited Business
       Overlay and A Residence Affordable Housing Overlay Zoning districts in the eastern
       Amagansett business corridor.
Design,
   1. Augment the Amagansett Historic District to include all the lots within the CB Zone.
   2. Develop and adopt an Amagansett Business Overlay District (ABOD) with design
       guidelines for the eastern business area. Consider the features of a Form Based Code.
Parking
   1. Develop Shared Parking Regulations
   2. Acquire land and expand the Municipal Parking Lot in Amagansett Center
   3. Develop a parking management strategy for Municipal and on-street parking
   4. Evaluate establishing a Parking Management District
Wastewater Management.
  1. Assess private property owner interest in developing a decentralized community
      wastewater system or another innovative alternative onsite wastewater treatment system.
  2. Provide technical assistance, development plans, financing options to facilitate
      community wastewater management options.
Suffolk County Planning Commission              3
Mixed use development and Workforce Housing
   1. Encourage development of 2nd story apartments and publicize the availability of
   Affordable Housing Credit Program to attenuate wastewater
Transportation- (Based on coordination and approval of NYSDOT and MTA)
      1. Realign Montauk Highway/Abrahams Path/Old Stone Highway intersection
      2. Redesign Train Station Parking lot and access
      3. Develop Train Station Parking lot management plan
      4. Install warning systems at 3 crosswalk location (complete)
      5. Study/implement shared use path along Montauk Highway
      6. Provide pedestrian/bike connections to the Beach from Main street
      7. Continue to support, fun, evaluate and expand the South Fork Commuter Connection to
          Amagansett
The general objectives of the Montauk Hamlet Plan is to “provide East Hampton with an
inspired, achievable plan which will enhance the Hamlets strengths while significantly improving
the Hamlets aesthetics, walkability, functionality and viability for people with disabilities.
Elimination of existing barriers for people with disabilities as define by the American with
Disabilities Act is of critical importance for planning, development and redevelopment in Montauk
and throughout the Town.” The Montauk Hamlet plan focuses mainly three areas of the Hamlet;
the Downtown Montauk commercial business and hotel districts, the Montauk Harbor Area
and the Montauk Long Island Rail Road Train Station.
The general objective to meet the issues of concern include but is not limited to “maintaining,
improving and revitalizing Downtown Montauk’s remarkable and charming business district
without harming its special character” while at the same time “increase Coastal Resiliency and
reduce risks from flooding, storms and sea level rise”’ This is proposed to be achieved by
considering a multi-phase approach to a strategic retreat to “relocate the businesses within the
lowest and most vulnerable area to higher ground in the core of the business area” by using a
“voluntary transfer of development rights program to provide ocean fronting motels with the
option to relocate landward and rebuild new resilient motel facilities”.
For the Montauk Harbor Area, principal recommendations include but are not limited to:
reinforce and enhance the picturesque historic and maritime character of the area without
displacing the commercial businesses and the recreational and commercial fishing industry, to
improve pedestrian and motor vehicle traffic circulation, to implement community wastewater
and storm water runoff solutions to improve water quality and habitat, and to increase resiliency
to reduce risks from projected flooding storms and sea level rise.
The hamlet vision of the Montauk Long Island Rail Road Station is to coordinate, with the
Metropolitan Transit Authority and the Long Island Rail Road, the future protection and
adaptation of this train station which has been identified as a “Critical Facility”. In addition, the
plan recommends improvement to traffic circulation and parking, increasing resiliency and
reduce risks from projected flooding, storms and sea level rise, and improve bicycle and
pedestrian connectivity.
The Suffolk County Planning Commissions has identified six general Critical County Wide Priorities
and include:
1.        Environmental Protection
Suffolk County Planning Commission                 4
2.        Energy efficiency
3.        Economic Development, Equity and Sustainability
4.        Housing Diversity
5.        Transportation and
6.        Public Safety
These policies are reflected in the Suffolk County Planning Commission Guidebook (unanimously
adopted July 11, 2012).
It is the belief of the staff that the two Hamlet Plans referred to the Suffolk County Planning
Commission give due consideration to the priorities of the Commission. The Plans address
appropriate scale and appearance of economic development for the hamlets looking into the future
while investigating innovative wastewater treatment initiatives, multi-modal transportation issues,
workforce housing/housing diversity, and rising seas due to the effects of climate change.
However, more attention made to Energy Efficiency (i.e. orientation of new buildings, the use of
rooftop or other solar, wind turbines, or geothermal methodologies, building materials, etc.,) for
appropriate scale energy efficiencies would round off the approach to the appropriate scale and
character envisioned by the hamlet plans. A review of the Suffolk County Planning Commission’s
Universal Design and Public Safety guidelines and incorporation of appropriate elements contained
therein could also improve the details of the hamlet planning initiatives. The Hamlet Plans would be
more comprehensive and strengthened by inclusion of such considerations.
It is important to note that many of the Hamlet Plan recommendations and implementation actions
will require referral to the Suffolk County Planning Commission for review and action pursuant to
New York State General Municipal Law (Section 239) and the Suffolk County Administrative Code
(Article XIV). The Suffolk County Planning Commission reserves the right to comment on the
specifics of any such referral. Approval of the Hamlet Plans for Wainscott, Springs and East
Hampton does not constitute acceptancy of any other zoning actions associated therewith before
any other local regulatory board.
                                     STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Approval of the Town of East Hampton Hamlet Plans for Amagansett and Montauk with the
following comments.
     1. The Town of East Hampton appears to be making significant progress in the
        development of an updated Comprehensive Master Plan. The update of the Town
        Comprehensive Plan will help to ensure that future development adheres to goals of the
        communities comprising the various hamlets as reflected in the Plan.
     2. More attention should be made to Energy Efficiency (e.x. orientation of new buildings, the
        use of rooftop or other solar devices, wind turbines, or geothermal methodologies, building
        materials, etc. for appropriate scale energy efficiencies). The Hamlet Plans would be more
        comprehensive and strengthened by inclusion of such considerations. The Suffolk County
        Planning Commission has published guidelines on Energy Efficiency that can be found at
        the Suffolk County Planning Commission website. Incorporation of appropriate elements
        contained therein could also improve the details of the hamlet planning initiatives. The
        Hamlet Plans would be more comprehensive and strengthened by inclusion of such
        considerations.
Suffolk County Planning Commission               5
     3. The Suffolk County Planning Commission has published guidelines on Universal Design
        and Public Safety that can be found at the Suffolk County Planning Commission website.
        Incorporation of appropriate elements contained therein could also improve the details of
        the hamlet planning initiatives. The Hamlet Plans would be more comprehensive and
        strengthened by inclusion of such considerations.
     4. It is important to note that many of the Hamlet Plan recommendations and implementation
        actions will require referral to the Suffolk County Planning Commission for review and action
        pursuant to New York State General Municipal Law (Section 239) and the Suffolk County
        Administrative Code (Article XIV). The Suffolk County Planning Commission reserves the
        right to comment on the specifics of any such referral. Approval of the Hamlet Plans for
        Amagansett and Montauk does not constitute acceptancy of any other zoning actions
        associated therewith before any other local regulatory board.
     5. The proposed hamlet plans should include a section that encourages (incentivizes)
        applicants to explore techniques to reduce parking demand; particularly for employers,
        employees and residents within the commercial business districts. Techniques may
        include, but are not limited to promotion of and priority to car sharing and ridesharing,
        parking cash-out programs, unbundled parking costs from rent, provision of free or
        discounted transit passes, provision of bicycle parking facilities, etc. The Suffolk County
        Planning Commission has produced a draft “model code” and report on such PSDR
        techniques and has recommended that no building or structure should be constructed,
        used or occupied without the adoption of Parking Stall Demand Reduction (PSDR)
        techniques conditioned, through covenants and restrictions, on land use and
        development approvals issued by municipal planning boards.
          https://www.suffolkcountyny.gov/portals/0/formsdocs/planning/SCPlanningCommission/2019/
          PSDR%20Final%20Draft%20103019.pdf
          The Hamlet Plans would be more comprehensive and strengthened by inclusion of such
          considerations.
Suffolk County Planning Commission                6
