URL: https://www.27east.com/real-estate-news/tenants-sought-for-former-cvs-pharmacy-site-in-bridgehampton-2-1410257/
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Published: 2015-07-21
Retrieved via curl; HTML converted to text; only paragraphs >60 chars kept.
----
 Tenants Sought For Former CVS Pharmacy Site In Bridgehampton | Real Estate News | 27east.com
A sketch of the building that will be located at 2510 Montauk Highway in Bridgehampton. DANA SHAW
New tenants are being sought for 2510 Montauk Highway in Bridgehampton after CVS Pharmacy dropped it plans to open a store there. DANA SHAW
A sketch of the building that will be located at 2510 Montauk Highway in Bridgehampton. DANA SHAW
New tenants are being sought for 2510 Montauk Highway in Bridgehampton after CVS Pharmacy dropped it plans to open a store there. DANA SHAW
New tenants are being sought for the building slated to go up on a corner at Bridgehampton’s busiest intersection.
A little more than a month after CVS Pharmacy dropped its plans to open a store there, Saunders has listed 2510 Montauk Highway on its website under real estate broker Lee V. Minetree. Both retail and office spaces are being advertised for the already-approved building, which has yet to be constructed at the site.
According to Mr. Minetree, the listing went up earlier this month, and he already has received a few inquires about the available spaces. He would not disclose what types of tenants were interested.
The listing states that the future 9,030-square-foot building will allow for as many as three retailers on the ground floor and three office suites on the second floor, “on one of the Hamptons’ most visible and high-traffic corners in the village of Bridgehampton.” Mr. Minetree said, however, that if a tenant wished to occupy an entire floor, “then we can work to accommodate them.”
Yearly rental agreements for the units are priced at $120,000, and a month-to-month lease will cost $10,000. The building will be available in 2016, according to the listing.
Mr. Minetree also confirmed that Melville-based Racanelli Construction has signed on as the builder of the new structure, for which the groundwork was laid in the fall, before building halted shortly after. When land was first cleared at the site in September, Nesconset Construction Company had been on the scene. That company did not at the time return calls seeking comment about whether it would be building the structure. A representative from Racanelli could not be reached for comment.
While construction at the property, owned by BNB Ventures IV, has been at a standstill for more than half a year, Wayne Bruyn, the Southampton attorney representing BNB Ventures, has said it will resume soon. In late May, Mr. Bruyn went before the Southampton Town Planning Board to renew the site plan, as it had expired.
Plans for the building were approved by the Planning Board in 2011. The original plan included apartments on the top floor and small retail spaces on the bottom, but the top floor was changed to office space by the time the plans were approved.
CVS announced in April 2014 that it had signed a 25-year lease with BNB Ventures to occupy the entire building. The company had to apply for a special exception permit through the Planning Board to occupy both floors, and then had to undergo an environmental review. After some Bridgehampton residents opposed the idea of converting the space into a busy retail use, the pharmacy giant withdrew its plans and terminated its lease this spring, and has instead negotiated a lease for a space in the proposed Bridgehampton Gateway development across from the Bridgehampton Commons.
Meanwhile, back at the corner known as Wick’s Tavern, at the busy intersection of Main Street, the Bridgehampton-Sag Harbor Turnpike, Lumber Lane and Ocean Road, a retail space is inappropriate, some residents have said, citing traffic and parking problems that already exist. They have said they are not opposed to offices, although they would prefer that it be preserved somehow by Southampton Town.
The corner once was the site of Wick’s Tavern, which, in the 1700s, housed Bridgehampton’s first post office, and was where local freemen who opposed the British Parliament are believed to have met during the Revolutionary War era. It has since been recognized by the state as a historic place.
 Second Defendant in East Hampton Building Department Bribery Case Pleads Guilty
 Resident Wins FOIL Lawsuit Against Southampton Village After Original Request and Appeal Were Denied
 Protests, Curiosity at HIFF’s Screening of ‘NAZA’ in Sag Harbor
 Fire at House Where Home Invasion Occurred Is Under Investigation
 Former East Hampton Building Department Employee Pleads Guilty in Bribery Case
Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.
An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account.
