URL: https://www.ehamptonny.gov/AgendaCenter/ViewFile/Item/2157?fileID=5624 (live site blocked; via https://web.archive.org/web/20240330131119/https://ehamptonny.gov/AgendaCenter/ViewFile/Item/2157?fileID=5624)
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Note: Concerns NEIGHBOR 177 Main St (Rowdy Hall), SCTM 300-171-1-14 - NOT the subject. Used for CB zoning / historic district / ARB process context.
----
                          Town of East Hampton
                                   300 Pantigo Place – Suite 105
                               East Hampton, New York 11937-2684
Planning Department                                                   Telephone (631) 324-2178
 Jeremy Samuelson
      Director
                      ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD EVALUATION
                          Rowdy Hall Signage & Exterior Repainting
                               177 Main Street, Amagansett
                                   SCTM#300-171-1-14
Prepared by: Daniel T. Gross
             Planner
Date:          July 10, 2023
1.      APPLICATION INFORMATION
        A. INFORMATION RECEIVED:
              a. Survey prepared by Saskas Surveying dated last revised February 8, 2011
              b. Photos of existing and proposed front view of structure
        B. DATE SUBMITTED: June 12, 2023
        C. OWNER: Adam Frank/ River Oak Properties (ROP Amagansett LLC)
        D. APPLICANT/AGENT: Mark Smith (Where Do You Want To Eat Inc.)
        E. SCHOOL DISTRICT: Amagansett
        F. STREET NAME: Main Street (Montauk Highway)
        G. TYPE OF STREET: State Route
        H. ZONING DISTRICT: CB: Central Business
        I. OTHER REVIEW:
        J. MOST RECENT CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
           C.O. 35980 (6014, 7200, 13724, 30754, 48889, 52609, 55502, 57649, 69384, 69385,
           69546, 69551) - UDELL M. CULLUM - 2304 SQ. FT. ONE STORY GROUP "A-2"
           RESTAURANT AND INTERIOR BAR WITH 650 SQ. FT. LOWER LEVEL FOR
           REFRIGERATIONS, STORAGE AREA AND EMPLOYEE LOCKERS;
           INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR RENOVATION, 36 SQ. FT. ENTRY VESTIBULE,
           WALKWAY AND REAR DECK WITH TOTAL APPROVED SEATING OF (94)
           NINETY-FOUR ONLY.
        K. DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING STRUCTURES: One Story Masonry Building
           with porch, deck, concrete dumpster pad, A.C. Units, and Oil Tank
        L. DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED STRUCTURES:
              a. Business Sign Letters (Gold): 10” - 14”x 76”
              b. “Rowdy Heads” (Gold): 15” x 15”
                                           Page 1 of 4
            c. Exterior Paint (HC190 Black & HC181 Heritage Red)
       M. DIMENSIONS OF PROPOSED STRUCTURES: see above.
       N. HEIGHT OF PROPOSED STRUCTURES:
            a. Business Sign (Letters & Heads): Proposed to be height of existing sign
       O. DOES EXISTING & PROPOSED LIGHTING COMPLY WITH BOARD
          POLICY? Yes
Other Background Information:
Application is made to replace an existing sign with a new sign, including gold lettering and
“Rowdy Heads,” and exterior paint and exterior paint to consist of Black & Heritage Red. The
proposed project is located in the CB: Central Business zoning district in Amagansett and is
within the Amagansett Historic District. Per the town’s records, the lot does not appear to be
related to a subdivision and is 100% cleared of natural vegetation.
Issues:
Mass and Scale
The proposed business sign and “rowdy heads” appear to meet existing dimensional
requirements per § 255-11-55(A)(1) Regulations for signs in Nonresidential zoning districts (see
attached general standards). Although not provided by the applicant, square footage for the
“Rowdy Heads” combined is estimated by the Planning Department to be 3.12 sq. ft., while the
business sign lettering is estimated to be 7.39 sq. ft.; resulting in a total of 10.51 sq. ft. overall
which is well below the permitted 20 sq. ft. The applicant should confirm the dimensions of the
proposed signage.
Historic Landmarks and Historic District
The Architectural Review Board should consider the attached general standards from §255-7-60
(A) and (B) of the Town Code regarding review of Historic Landmarks and Historic Districts.
The Board should take these guidelines into consideration when discussing the application,
which involves the placement of a new business sign and exterior repainting on a site designated
as being located within a historic district.
Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
Per The Amagansett Historic District Guidelines, the Amagansett Historic District contains a
mix of 18th and 19th century homes, barns, community buildings, and commercial buildings in a
rural setting. The preservation goals for the Amagansett Historic District are as follows:
   A.) Promote a harmonious and cohesive character for all of Main Street.
   B.) Maintain and enhance the elements that contribute to the overall setting of the historic
       houses: open front yards and traditional fences along the street.
   C.) Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic houses, especially of the front facades
       and other components visible from the street.
   D.) Allow additions and other changes to rear walls and in appropriate ways to side walls to
       allow the historic houses to be adapted to changing needs and lifestyles.
                                               Page 2 of 4
   E.) Maintain the architectural integrity of the barns and the integrity of their setting.
   F.) Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic commercial buildings.
   G.) Retain the rural and informal character of the Central Business District characterized by
       a mix of building types, by a significant amount of open space and by spaces between
       buildings.
   H.) Guide redevelopment of nonhistoric buildings in the Central Business District to increase
       compatibility with neighboring historic commercial and residential buildings and with
       the character of the Historic District in general.
Per the preservation goals, the Architectural Review Board should consider whether the
proposed business sign and exterior paint supports the compatibility and character of the
Amagansett Historic District, particularly in relation to commercial and residential properties.
Central Business District Guidelines.
In addition to the overall guidelines of the Amagansett Historic District, the Amagansett Historic
District Guidelines also provide specific guidelines for properties within the Central Business
District. The Preservation Goals for the Central Business District Guidelines are as follows:
   1.) Retain the architectural integrity and the setting of the historic houses and the historic
       barns.
   2.) Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic commercial buildings.
   3.) Retain the rural and informal character of the Central Business. District characterized
       by a mix of building types, by a significant amount of open space and by spaces between
       buildings.
   4.) Guide redevelopment of nonhistoric buildings to increase compatibility with neighboring
       historic commercial and residential buildings and with the character of the Historic
       District in general.
Additionally, exterior paint in the Central Business District should follow the guidelines stated in
section § A-5(B)(3) of town code (see attached Amagansett Historic District Guidelines), which
are listed as follows:
   a.) Colors of historic buildings should be appropriate to their period and style, taking into
       account the significance of their evolution over time.
   b.) Historic buildings with either natural-shingle siding or with shingle or clapboard siding
       painted white should retain those treatments.
                                              Page 3 of 4
   c.) Natural-shingle siding or siding painted white along with white trim are appropriate
       finishes.
   d.) Other colors used should harmonize with the colors of the historic buildings and with the
       setting of the Historic District.
Per these guidelines, the Architectural Review Board should consider whether the proposed
exterior paint colors of “HC190 Black” and “HC181 Heritage Red,” and the proposed sign color
of “gold,” harmonize with the colors and settings of the historic buildings and the Amagansett
Historic District in general.
Provided Renderings
The applicant-submitted rendering of the subject property includes a second-story balcony above
the front door which is not a part of the original proposal. The applicant should confirm whether
a second-story balcony is to be constructed and submit renderings that accurately reflect what is
being proposed.
Lighting
No proposed exterior lighting is outlined on the plans. The Board should discuss with the
applicant whether they intend to retain the existing exterior lighting on the property or whether
the submission of a Lighting Plan will be necessary.
Conclusion
In conclusion, the Architectural Review Board should discuss whether the proposed project can
meet its Standards and Criteria as provided in §255-7-60, in addition to the applicable standards
and guidelines for the Amagansett Historic District as provided in Zoning Appendix A.
                                              Page 4 of 4
6/27/23, 9:46 AM                        Town of East Hampton, NY Uses and Dimensions: § 255-11-55 Regulations for signs in various zoning districts.
sited and tastefully designed signs of various kinds, it is hereby required that signs be erected, established, altered and
maintained only in accordance with the requirements of the following sections.
  § 255-11-52 General standards.
A.   Certain signs prohibited. The following types of signs shall be prohibited in the Town of East Hampton:
     [Amended 12-15-1989 by L.L. No. 16-1989; 6-7-1991 by L.L. No. 11-1991; 10-6-2006 by L.L. No. 27-2006; 12-5-2008 by
     L.L. No. 22-2008]
     (1) Billboards, including sandwich board and other sidewalk signs.
     (2) Flashing, blinking, tracing, flickering or neon signs.
         [Amended 7-3-2014 by L.L. No. 21-2014]
     (3) Any sign more than three feet higher than the average ceiling height of the building on which the sign is located.
     (4) Any sign more than 10 feet higher than the natural grade of the land on which it is located.
     (5) Illuminated vending machines.
     (6) Exterior internally illuminated signs.
B.   Nonconforming signs. Only signs as are described and permitted by specific provisions of these sections shall be
     deemed to conform thereto. Any other sign shall be deemed nonconforming. A nonconforming sign may not be
     replaced by another nonconforming sign. All signs rendered nonconforming by prior enactments of these provisions,
     by the enactment of these sections or by any future amendment thereof, shall, at the expiration of the following time
     periods following such enactment or amendment, become prohibited and unlawful structures and shall be removed:
     [Amended 12-15-1989 by L.L. No. 16-1989]
     (1) Sandwich boards, banners, pennants, sidewalk signs, merchandise, parked automobiles and the like: 15 days.
     (2) Signs consisting entirely or primarily of paint or other nonstructural decoration to the exterior facing of a
         building or structure: one year.
C.   Public property. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit the authority of the Town Board to erect, alter or maintain
     any sign deemed necessary or reasonable for the public safety or convenience on any right-of-way or other property
     owned or leased by the Town, nor the authority of the Town Board to allow, permit or license private persons or
     parties to do the same, subject to all applicable provisions of law.
D.   Legal notices. These regulations shall not apply to signs placed on any property to provide legal notice to the public
     where such notice and such sign are required by the terms of any law, ordinance, governmental regulation, court
     decree or administrative order. However, in the case of gasoline price signs and other similar external signs required
     by law to be posted by certain businesses or special permit uses, any characteristic of the sign, such as maximum size,
     color, exact onsite location, etc., not specifically determined by the law requiring the sign, shall be subject to site plan
     and/or architectural and design approval in the same manner as any other sign on the property.
E.   Lighting of signs. Lighting shall be mounted on the top of or above the sign, directed downward, and positioned or
     shielded so that the light source is not visible beyond the boundary of the property on which the sign is located.
     [Added 10-6-2006 by L.L. No. 27-2006]
  § 255-11-55 Regulations for signs in various zoning districts.
[Amended 6-14-2001 by L.L. No. 11-2001; 11-4-2005 by L.L. No. 38-2005; 12-5-2008 by L.L. No. 22-2008]
A.   Nonresidential zoning districts:
     (1) Each business establishment located in a nonresidential zone shall be permitted signage as follows:
          (a) All signs for any one business shall not exceed 20 square feet in aggregate area, except that both sides of a
              two-sided freestanding sign may have an aggregate area of 32 square feet.
          (b) Freestanding signs shall not extend more than 10 feet above the grade of the land on which the sign is
              located. However, in no event shall any sign extend beyond the height of the structure to which it is
              attached, or located adjacent thereto.
          (c) The aggregate area of all signs located on any one wall of any building shall not exceed one foot times the
              length of the particular wall on which the signs are located.
     (2) Where a structure or group of structures containing more than one business exists on one lot, a freestanding
         directory sign conforming to the following requirements shall be permitted in addition to the signage permitted
         herein for each business:
          (a) The complex name sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area on each side;
          (b) Each business may have a sign on the directory not to exceed six inches tall by 36 inches wide.
     (3) All such signs shall be located upon the premises upon which the business is located.
     (4) No sign shall be installed so that any portion of the sign extends beyond the height to the building upon which it
         is attached.
https://ecode360.com/10416136?highlight=business,business sign,business signs,business signs businesses,sign,signs,signs signs&searchId=4792…          8/34
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                                  Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
[HISTORY: Added by the Town Board of the Town of East Hampton 6-2-2000 by L.L. No. 8-2000]
     § A-1 Location and composition of district.
A.     The Amagansett Historic District contains a mix of historic houses, barns, community buildings and commercial
       buildings in a rural setting.
B.     The essential character of the Historic District is established by the 30 farmhouses dating from the 18th Century
       through the 19th Century when Amagansett matured as a thriving agrarian community. The continuum of these
       farmhouses on either side of Main Street gives the Historic District much of its cohesive character.
C.     The remaining barns and agricultural land greatly enhance the rural setting of the farmhouses and maintain the
       connection with Amagansett's agrarian past.
D.     The community buildings and the historic commercial buildings occur at intervals up and down Main Street. These
       buildings are largely compatible with the neighboring farmhouses and contribute to the overall harmonious character
       of the Historic District.
     § A-2 Preservation goals.
Preservation goals for the Amagansett Historic District:
A.     Promote a harmonious and cohesive character for all of Main Street.
B.     Maintain and enhance the elements that contribute to the overall setting of the historic houses: open front yards and
       traditional fences along the street.
C.     Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic houses, especially of the front facades and other components visible
       from the street.
D.     Allow additions and other changes to rear walls and in appropriate ways to side walls to allow the historic houses to be
       adapted to changing needs and lifestyles.
E.     Maintain the architectural integrity of the barns and the integrity of their setting.
F.     Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic commercial buildings.
G.     Retain the rural and informal character of the Central Business District characterized by a mix of building types, by a
       significant amount of open space and by spaces between buildings.
H.     Guide redevelopment of nonhistoric buildings in the Central Business District to increase compatibility with
       neighboring historic commercial and residential buildings and with the character of the Historic District in general.
     § A-3 Residence District Guidelines.
These guidelines apply to all properties within the Residence District of the Amagansett Historic District. These include
properties in the Limited Business Overlay District.
A.     Preservation goals for the Residence District:
       (1) Maintain and enhance the elements that contribute to the overall setting of the historic residences: open front
           yards and traditional fences along the street.
       (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic residences, especially of the front facades and other
           components visible from the street.
       (3) Allow additions and other changes to rear walls and in appropriate ways to side walls to allow the historic
           residences to be adapted to changing needs and lifestyles.
B.     Summary of work that is exempt from review.
       (1) Work that is exempt from review for a single-family residence:
            (a) All roofing.
            (b) All painting or staining.
            (c) Shingling side walls.
            (d) Storm/screen windows and storm/screen doors.
            (e) Window shutters.
            (f) Gutters and leaders.
            (g) Porch steps, porch flooring and railings to porch steps.
            (h) Picket fences and split-rail fences less than four feet high.
            (i) Driveways and walkways.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                        1/11
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                                 Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
       (1) This intact church makes an important contribution to the Historic District.
       (2) The architectural integrity of St. Thomas' Chapel and its open setting should be maintained.
       (3) Alterations, additions or redevelopment of the rectory should be compatible with the Chapel.
       (4) Modifications deemed liturgically necessary should be readily accommodated per the requirements of the
           Church.
F.     286 Main Street, St. Peter the Apostle Roman Catholic Church.
       (1) This church with its small-scale, modest design, shingled exterior and open setting contributes to the rural
           character of the Historic District. It is understood that because of the small size of this church and a growing
           congregation, building a new church or an addition to the existing church may some day be necessary.
       (2) Modifications deemed liturgically necessary should be readily accommodated per the requirements of the parish.
       (3) Any alterations or additions should be compatible with the character of the church, neighboring residences and
           their setting.
G.     350 Main Street, United Presbyterian Church.
       (1) This is one of the most significant buildings in the Historic District and it retains many original exterior features.
       (2) The architectural integrity of the church should be maintained.
       (3) Modifications deemed liturgically necessary should be readily accommodated per the requirements of the
           church.
     § A-5 Central Business District guidelines.
These guidelines apply to all properties within the Central Business District of the Amagansett Historic District. The Central
Business District contains a mix of both historic and recent commercial buildings as well as some of the most important
historic residential and agricultural properties in the Amagansett Historic District. Maintaining the architectural integrity of
the historic houses and barns and the integrity of their setting is critical to maintaining the overall cohesive character of the
Historic District. Commercial buildings began to be interspersed with the residences on Main Street toward the end of the
19th Century. This pattern remains part of the character of Main Street today. The historic commercial buildings represent
a variety of types, materials and periods which, along with the mix of historic residences, contributes to the rural and
informal character of the Central Business District. Maintaining the architectural integrity of the historic commercial
buildings is essential to preserve this special character of the Amagansett business district. More recently commercial
development has been concentrated on the north side of Main Street in the vicinity of the town parking lot; the
compatibility of this row of commercial buildings with other areas of Main Street is a critical factor in maintaining the
integrity of the Historic District.
A.     Preservation goals for the Central Business District:
       (1) Retain the architectural integrity and the setting of the historic houses and the historic barns.
       (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the historic commercial buildings.
       (3) Retain the rural and informal character of the Central Business. District characterized by a mix of building types,
           by a significant amount of open space and by spaces between buildings.
       (4) Guide redevelopment of nonhistoric buildings to increase compatibility with neighboring historic commercial and
           residential buildings and with the character of the Historic District in general.
B.     All properties.
       (1) Exterior lighting.
            (a) Exterior lighting should be appropriate to the rural character of the Historic District and compatible with the
                residential areas of the district. Lighting of signs, entrances and of surrounding areas is subject to review.
            (b) Light directed on signs should spill beyond the borders of the sign as little as possible.
            (c) Incandescent lamps and full-spectrum fluorescent lamps are the most appropriate light sources.
            (d) Internally illuminated signs are not appropriate.
       (2) Awnings.
            (a) Awnings should be appropriate to the rural character of the Historic District.
            (b) Traditional fabric awnings with a straight front and a straight sloping canopy with or without a valence are
                appropriate.
       (3) Paint. Consistency in exterior finishes can enhance the compatibility between commercial and residential
           buildings and between recent commercial buildings and historic commercial buildings. Like the historic houses,
           either natural wood shingles or a white-painted exterior predominate among the historic commercial buildings.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                       7/11
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                              Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
          (a) Colors of historic buildings should be appropriate to their period and style, taking into account the
              significance of their evolution over time.
          (b) Historic buildings with either natural-shingle siding or with shingle or clapboard siding painted white should
              retain those treatments.
          (c) Natural-shingle siding or siding painted white along with white trim are appropriate finishes.
          (d) Other colors used should harmonize with the colors of the historic buildings and with the setting of the
              Historic District.
C.   Historic commercial buildings.
     (1) These guidelines apply to the nine historic commercial buildings in the Central Business District:
          137 Main Street, Black's Variety Store (The Tack Trunk)
          171 Main Street, Bluff Road Life Saving Station (Outdoor)
          203 Main Street, Second Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company (Amagansett Wine and Spirits)
          207 Main Street, First Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company (The Coach Factory Store)
          225 Main Street, Rackett & Company (Garnham and Han Real Estate)
          231 Main Street, Joe's Restaurant (Gordon's Restaurant)
          255 Main Street, Amagansett Food Market (Home Nature)
          11 Indian Wells Plain Highway, Nicholl's Livery Stable
          136 Main Street, Amagansett Garage
     (2) The historic commercial buildings on Main Street make a major contribution to the cohesive character of the
         Historic District. The general small scale of these buildings, the wood facades, the residential second-floor
         windows, and their siting as separate individual buildings all contribute to a rural and informal character that is
         compatible with the character of the residential area of Main Street.
     (3) Original features of the historic commercial buildings should be retained, including overall design; original
         materials of the front facade; original storefronts; parapets and cornices; original details; and original upper-floor
         residential windows. Open spaces that contribute to their setting should also be maintained.
     (4) Any alterations should not remove or obscure important original features and should be compatible with the
         historic character of the building.
     (5) Additional guidelines for some properties are found in the supplemental guidelines for specific Central Business
         District properties (§ A-6).
D.   Nonhistoric buildings and new construction. These guidelines apply to alteration or redevelopment of nonhistoric
     buildings and to new construction. Buildings constructed after 1950 are classified as nonhistoric buildings. The
     alteration or redevelopment of nonhistoric buildings could have a significant impact on the character of the Historic
     District. New commercial buildings may also be constructed. Existing features of nonhistoric buildings that are
     compatible with the Historic District should be maintained. Alterations, redevelopment and new construction should
     be compatible with the historic commercial buildings and with the character of the Historic District in general.
     Additional guidelines for some properties are found in the supplemental guidelines for specific Central Business
     District properties (§ A-6).
     (1) Contemporary design. The Amagansett Historic District is a complex entity. It reflects a range of historical
         periods and contains many different building types. Contemporary designs should fit into the existing context
         while contributing to the sense of evolution and the complexity of the Historic District.
          (a) Contemporary designs that respond to the architectural traditions and character of the Historic District are
              encouraged.
          (b) Contemporary designs should relate to the forms, materials, details and other characteristics of the historic
              buildings but are not required to imitate the historic styles of the existing buildings.
     (2) Rhythm of spacing of buildings. Historic commercial development is characterized by small-scale individual
         buildings, many of which are separated from others by significant open space. These characteristics contribute to
         the rural character of the Historic District.
          (a) Alteration, redevelopment or new construction should enhance this characteristic of separate individual
              buildings.
          (b) Alteration or redevelopment of buildings joined by a party wall should distinguish the building to avoid the
              appearance of a commercial block.
          (c) Open spaces between buildings should be retained.
     (3) Scale. Most of the historic commercial buildings, with the exception of the Nicholl's Livery Stable and the
         Amagansett Garage, have a scale similar to that of the historic houses.
          (a) The scale of any new or redeveloped commercial building should be in harmony with the average scale of
              the historic commercial buildings.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                     8/11
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                                 Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
       (4) Second stories. The second stories of historic commercial buildings, with their residential windows, enhance their
           compatibility with the residential area of Main Street.
            (a) Second stories with windows having the scale, proportion and arrangement of the windows of the historic
                houses are appropriate.
            (b) Existing second stories and their residential windows should be retained with repairs and replacements in
                kind where necessary.
       (5) Display windows. Most of the historic commercial buildings have display windows of a vertical, square, or slightly
           horizontal proportion.
            (a) Display windows of the proportions of those in the historic commercial buildings are appropriate.
       (6) Materials. Most of the historic commercial buildings have wood facades and wood exteriors predominate
           throughout the Historic District.
            (a) Front facades of shingles or clapboards with wood trim and storefronts with wood display window frames
                and wood doors are appropriate.
            (b) Existing wood facades and storefronts should be retained with repairs and replacements in kind where
                necessary.
       (7) Building details. The historic commercial buildings, like the historic residences, have relatively plain exteriors.
            (a) The restrained use of ornament is appropriate.
E.     Historic houses and barns.
       (1) These guidelines apply to the seven historic residences and two historic barns within the Central Business
           District. These properties are:
            129 Main Street, Miss Amelia's Cottage
            137 Main Street, Jonathan Schellinger Barn
            145 Main Street, Jonathan Schellinger House and Shed
            161 Main Street, Erastus Barnes House (Steven Talkhouse)
            215 Main Street, Amagansett Free Library
            249 Main Street, J. Mason Schellinger House (WEHM/WBEA)
            261 Main Street, George L. Baker House
            154 Main Street, C.W. Rackett House (Amagansett Square)
       (2) The goal is to maintain the architectural integrity of these buildings and the integrity of their residential or
           agricultural setting. The guidelines found in the Residence District guidelines (§ A-3) also apply to these
           properties, unless superseded by guidelines in this section. Additional guidelines for these properties are found in
           the supplemental guidelines for specific Central Business District properties (§ A-6).
F.     Demolition. No building or structure or portion thereof that makes an important contribution to the district should be
       demolished. Exceptions to this rule may be granted by the Architectural Review Board only as follows. In considering a
       proposal to demolish a building or structure or portion of a building or structure the following guidelines apply:
       (1) The Architectural Review Board shall consider the historic and architectural significance of the building, the
           contribution the building makes to the Historic District, and the impact of its removal on the character of the
           district.
       (2) If an application for demolition of an entire historic building is based on structural instability or deterioration, a
           technical report prepared by an architect or engineer is required. The report will detail the problems and provide
           cost estimates for their correction.
       (3) The Architectural Review Board may require adequate documentation of a historic building through photographs
           and measured drawings as a condition of approval when there is no alternative but demolition.
       (4) Before approval can be granted to demolish a building, the Architectural Review Board shall require plans for
           proposed new construction or other use of the site be submitted and approved.
G.     Relocation. The intent is to retain the historic buildings on their original sites. In the Amagansett Historic District each
       historic building contributes to the setting of the neighboring buildings and together they establish the larger setting
       of the Historic District.
       (1) The Architectural Review Board will consider the historic and architectural significance of the building, the
           contribution the building makes to the Historic District on its existing site, and the impact of its relocation on the
           character of the district.
       (2) Before approval can be granted to relocate a building, the Architectural Review Board shall require plans for
           proposed new construction or other use of the site be submitted and approved.
     § A-6 Supplemental guidelines for specific Central Business District properties.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                         9/11
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                              Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
A.   129 Main Street, Miss Amelia's Cottage.
     (1) This property is important both for the Cottage and for the large open space. This property and the Jonathan
         Schellinger Farm Complex to the east have the potential to greatly enhance the setting of one another.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the Cottage and the Roy K. Lester Barn.
     (3) Retain the open land between the Cottage and the Jonathan Schellinger Farm Complex properties.
B.   Jonathan Schellinger Farm Complex 137 Main Street, Jonathan Schellinger Barn and Black's Variety Store (The Tack
     Trunk) 145 Main Street, Jonathan Schellinger House and Shed.
     (1) The two properties which contain the Jonathan Schellinger House and Barn comprise one of the most important
         components of the Amagansett Historic District. No other property represents Amagansett's agrarian past as
         does the Jonathan Schellinger Farm Complex.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the house and barn. Maintain all original fabric of the shed, which may have
         been Samuel Schellinger's woodworking shop.
     (3) Maintain the historic relationships between the buildings and between the buildings and their setting.
     (4) Black's Variety Store, originally a rear addition to the Jonathan Schellinger House, was moved and converted into
         a store about 1922. This building represents the historic development of commercial properties on Main Street
         where small-scale buildings were located close to the street between residences.
C.   161 Main Street, Erastus Barnes House (Steven Talkhouse).
     (1) Although this early 19th Century dwelling has been altered it continues to make a contribution to the Historic
         District.
     (2) Maintain the frame and exterior form of the original dwelling.
     (3) Maintain the three original window openings at the second floor of the front wall.
     (4) Maintain the features of the front addition that contribute to its appearance as an enclosed porch. Any
         alterations should enhance its character as an enclosed porch.
     (5) Alterations to other additions should be compatible with the original dwelling.
D.   171 Main Street, Bluff Road Life Saving Station (Outdoor).
     (1) The 1880 station was moved to Main Street in 1902 and converted into a store. Although altered by the modern
         storefront addition, this building is significant as a life saving station and for its contribution to the rural and
         informal character of the business district.
     (2) Maintain the frame and exterior form of the original life saving station.
     (3) Maintain original exterior features including the wide eaves, bargeboards with scroll ends and brackets under the
         eaves.
E.   215 Main Street, Amagansett Free Library.
     (1) This 1790 house in a residential setting at the center of the most built-up section of the business district is a
         critical component of the Historic District.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the house.
     (3) Maintain the open setting between the house and the street and to either side of the original house.
F.   249 Main Street, J. Mason Schellinger House (WEHM/WBEA).
     (1) The roofline of this one-story cape was altered in the 1880s and the house was moved back from the street and
         turned 90° in the 1970s. It retains little integrity and makes a minor contribution compared to the other historic
         houses in the Central Business District.
     (2) Maintain the frame of the original dwelling. Maintain residential features including the windows and front
         doorway of the 1880s renovation.
     (3) Any alterations should enhance the residential character.
G.   261 Main Street, George L. Baker House.
     (1) This 1853 house retains a high level of integrity and is one of the important group of five intact Greek Revival and
         Italianate dwellings in the district which, along with the 1860 Presbyterian Church, represent Amagansett's
         maturity as a prosperous independent community.
     (2) During this period houses were sited farther from the street allowing front yards, but the setback of this house is
         unusually great. A commercial use of this house could lead to a proposal to move the house toward the street in
         order to provide parking to the rear. This is one of the few houses in the Historic District that could be relocated
         on its lot without seriously diminishing its integrity of setting.
     (3) Maintain the architectural integrity of the main house and of the west wing.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                    10/11
6/26/23, 4:52 PM                                               Town of East Hampton, NY Amagansett Historic District Guidelines
     (4) Maintain the open setting between the house and the street.
     (5) Locate any parking area behind the house.
     (6) If the house were moved toward the street to meet parking requirements, the setback should be appropriate for
         its period and be in the range of setbacks of other houses of the 1850 - 1875 period on Main Street.
     (7) As long as this property remains a single-family residence, all work that is exempt from review for a single-family
         residence [§ A-3B(1)] is exempt for this property.
H.   11 Indian Wells Plain Highway Nicholl's Livery Stable.
     (1) The Nicholl's Livery Stable is a rare surviving building type associated with the early Amagansett summer colony
         and has an outstanding level of architectural integrity. It is anticipated that adapting this building to a new use will
         require additional windows at the first floor and possibly new windows for the second floor. The west and south
         walls are the most significant character-defining facades of the livery stable; the ARB realizes flexibility is required
         in reviewing changes to the secondary north and east walls.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity by retaining important features, including barn doors; hay loft doors; vertical-
         board siding; roof eaves; original windows, especially on the west and south walls; and the barn red exterior with
         white trim.
     (3) Nonhistoric additions and altered windows may be removed from the building.
     (4) Any site plan review should have the goal of opening up a view from Main Street.
I.   130 Main Street, Mobil Station.
     (1) The most significant feature of this property is the open space at the west end which provides the potential for
         Nicholl's Livery Stable to make a greater visual contribution to Main Street.
     (2) Any changes should be reviewed to enhance compatibility with the Historic District.
     (3) Any site plan review should have the goals of maintaining the open space west of the building, removing
         intrusions from that space and enhancing the visibility of Nicholl's Livery Stable from Main Street.
J.   136 Main Street, Amagansett Garage.
     (1) This circa 1920 automobile dealership and repair shop introduced a new building type to Main Street.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the two-story main building.
K.   154 Main Street, C.W. Rackett House and Amagansett Square.
     (1) The front of the original 18th Century house faced west and the gable end faced the street. During the last
         quarter of the 19th Century, a new front doorway in the gable end and additions with porches gave the house a
         new "front" facing the street. The house represents the evolution of Main Street during the 19th Century and is
         particularly important for the intact porch on the west addition.
     (2) Maintain the architectural integrity of the house by retaining historic features, including early shingle siding; early
         windows and sash; front doorway; porch; and white painted exterior.
     (3) Maintain the open setting between the house and the street and the open space surrounding the house.
     (4) Review any proposed changes to the more recent buildings at Amagansett Square to enhance compatibility with
         the setting of the historic house. The individual buildings should remain smaller in scale and secondary in all
         characteristics to the historic house.
https://ecode360.com/10416540                                                                                                       11/11
