URL: https://behindthehedges.com/marys-marvelous-in-amagansett-closing-and-available-to-lease
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Extraction: article body text extracted from fetched HTML (navigation boilerplate removed)

hind The Hedges: Powered by The Long Island Press Home Pros Podcasts Dan’s Papers Advertise News & Features Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett Closing and Available to Lease By Oliver Peterson … Comments Posted on December 9, 2016 Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett, the first of the business’s two locations, is closing its doors and hitting the local real estate market as a long-term lease for $625,000 in key money. The deal, through Douglas Elliman brokers Richard Kohr and Lori Macgarva, includes all existing equipment, but not the property or the Mary’s Marvelous name, which will carry on in their popular East Hampton location at 105 Newtown Lane. Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett, Photo: Courtesy Douglas Elliman Offered as a “valuable business opportunity,” the shop includes 1,100 square feet of prime Main Street retail space in high traffic area with a dedicated customer base on .05 acres. The one-story building at 270 Main Street in Amagansett currently has retail and kitchen areas, as well as additional exterior storage and outdoor patio space for customers to enjoy. This storefront location can continue to operate as a food use, or it can be refit for other retail possibilities. Mary’s Marvelous patio, Photo: Courtesy Douglas Elliman “The value is the use of the space,” Kohr said on Friday. “There’s only so many wet use stores out there,” he added, pointing out that “wet use” permitted food establishments are much harder to come by than “dry” retail space. “It might be something else, but it’s really set up for [food use],” Kohr noted. The broker explains that the deal is essentially the same as buying a business, not a property, but the key difference is the exclusion of the Mary’s Marvelous name. Still a similar use would be likely to draw upon the many folks who already frequent the shop in Amagansett. See the listing here. Mary’s Marvelous kitchen, Photo: Courtesy Douglas Elliman About the Author Conversations Profile All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines . Schneps Media does not endorse the views shared by readers in our comment sections. More in News & Features DeCaro Auctions to Launch Fractional Ownership Model for Upscale Vacation Properties Andrew Cuomo Scores a Deal on Hamptons Waterfront Estate A First Look at the New Southampton Home of ‘Summer House’ Better Together: Inside the Terry Thompson- Tania Deighton Team at Douglas Elliman Reach thousands of Hamptons homebuyers every weekday Find out more Insights and exclusive content delivered direct to you Subscribe Read the latest issue of Behind The Hedges --> Latest Posts East End Real Estate Pros Learn How Powerful a OneKey®MLS Subscription Can Be Watchcase Factory Penthouse Sells for Record $7.3M in Sag Harbor East Hampton Town Closes $7.25M Purchase of Pathfinder Camp Property East Hampton Home Blends Yankee Barn Architecture With Modern Luxury Simple ways to breathe new life into a foyer Design Midcentury Glass House in East Hampton Lists for $1.55M 20th Annual Antiques & Design Show Benefit Set for East Hampton Michael Derrig Has Built a Successful Hamptons Design Firm by Seeing What Others Miss Inside Lulu and Georgia’s Summer Takeover at The Reform Club Real Esta
