URL: https://www.27east.com/real-estate-news/marys-marvelous-in-amagansett-to-close-when-new-tenant-is-found-1404430
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Extraction: article body text extracted from fetched HTML (navigation boilerplate removed)

nt Copy article link Save Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett will close after a new tenant is found for the space. KYRIL BROMLEY By 27east Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett is looking for a new tenant, and will close when one is found. Mary Schoenlein opened "/> Mary's Marvelous In Amagansett To Close When New Tenant Is Found By 27east Dec 9, 2016 Dec 9, 2016 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email COURTESY DOUGLAS ELLIMAN By 27east Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett will close when a new tenant is found. KYRIL BROMLEY By 27east Mary's Marvelous in Amagansett will close after a new tenant is found for the space. KYRIL BROMLEY By 27east Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Mary’s Marvelous in Amagansett is looking for a new tenant, and will close when one is found. Mary Schoenlein opened the bakery and gourmet breakfast and lunch spot on Amagansett’s Main Street in 2002, Ten years later she opened a second Mary’s Marvelous on Newtown Lane in East Hampton, after extensive renovations to that space, which used to house Bucket’s Deli. The plan to consolidate to the west comes because the East Hampton store is a larger facility, with a newer kitchen, according to Robert Kohr of Douglas Elliman, who shares a listing for the Amagansett location with Lori MacGarva. “Mary’s had a great time there, a great success,” Mr. Kohr said, “As soon as we have a deal then she’ll close the doors, but it’s still operating five days a week.” Mr. Kohr added: “She’s just going down the road—I’m sure another great spot will go in there.” A new tenant would pay $625,000 in key money" to acquire the long-term lease for the space at 207 Main Street as well as the kitchen and retail equipment—although not the name Mary’s Marvelous. The one-story building is 1,100 square feet with outdoor storage and patio spaces, and as one of a finite number of permitted “wet uses” in East Hampton Town, the store can continue to prepare and serve food. “In one day I’ve had several serious inquiries,” Mr. Kohr said on Thursday, December 8. “All these people know Mary’s is a great spot.” " Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Most Popular Second Defendant in East Hampton Building Department Bribery Case Pleads Guilty Fire at House Where Home Invasion Occurred Is Under Investigation Protests, Curiosity at HIFF’s Screening of ‘NAZA’ in Sag Harbor Resident Wins FOIL Lawsuit Against Southampton Village After Original Request and Appeal Were Denied Former East Hampton Building Department Employee Pleads Guilty in Bribery Case Sections The Southampton Press The East Hampton Press The Sag Harbor Express Residence Arts & Living The Express Magazine E-Edition 27Speaks Podcast The Express Sessions Get Connected Subscribe South Fork Nonprofit Directory Submission Forms Classifieds Business Directory Calendar of Events Search Weather Sign Up for Email Newsletter Advertise The Express News Group 33 Flying Point Road Suite 204-206 Southampton, NY 11968 Phone: 631-283-4100 Email: mailbag@27east.com Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Vimeo Apple Podcasts × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of 
