URL: https://27east.com/east-hampton-press/marys-marvelous-leaves-amagansett-organic-krush-to-move-in-1633346
Accessed: 2026-10-07
Extraction: article body text extracted from fetched HTML (navigation boilerplate removed)

int Copy article link Save and Michelle Walrath Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save left Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Mary’s Marvelous has said goodbye to Amagansett. The popular baked goods and sandwich shop, which still has a location on Newtown Lane in East Hampton, left 207 Main Street in Amagansett this week after selling that rental space to Organic Krush. The purveyors of organic and non-genetically modified foods already have a restaurant in Woodbury […] "/> Mary's Marvelous Leaves Amagansett; Organic Krush To Move In Jun 15, 2017 Jun 15, 2017 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Fran Paniccia and Michelle Walrath left Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Mary’s Marvelous has said goodbye to Amagansett. The popular baked goods and sandwich shop, which still has a location on Newtown Lane in East Hampton, left 207 Main Street in Amagansett this week after selling that rental space to Organic Krush. The purveyors of organic and non-genetically modified foods already have a restaurant in Woodbury and a cafe at the Hain Celestial Group headquarters in Lake Success. The new Amagansett takeout cafe, which will sell such food items as smoothies and cold-pressed juice, yogurt, salads and cooked organic chicken, is set to open on Monday, June 26. According to Michelle Walrath, one of the owners and founders of Organic Krush, the deal for purchasing the space was closed on Monday, June 12, for a price that she did not wish to discuss—although the long-term lease and equipment had been listed for $625,000. She did say that she heard about the space, which had been up for sale since last November, from a customer in the Woodbury store in March. “One of the customers there said, ‘Hey, did you know there’s a space in Amagansett and it was put up for lease?” Ms. Walrath said outside the closed-up building in Amagansett on Friday. “I, of course, knew Mary’s Marvelous—I’ve been out here for years and loved it.” Ms. Walrath is a summer resident of Montauk, so having a location nearby seemed like a fine idea, she said. She said she began the process of taking over the space by speaking with real estate agents from Douglas Elliman. She said that she didn’t meet Mary Schonlein, the owner and founder of Mary’s Marvelous, until last week. For now, Ms. Walrath and her partners, Fran Paniccia and James Tchinnis, have to fill up the cleared-out store with equipment, food and employees. “I think what we’ve noticed overall is that there’s this insistence from customers on clean food—they ask us a ton of questions, and people want to know where their food is coming from,” Ms. Walrath said. “There are also tons of different unique allergy needs, food sensitivities, styles of eating, and diet plans. People can look forward to delicious, organic food and great service.” Mary’s Marvelous continues to operate at its location at 105 Newtown Lane, where a Khanh Sports outlet has moved in next door. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Most Popular Second Defendant in East Hampton Building Department Bribery Case Pleads Guilty Former East Hampton Buildi
